Home - Tobacco Free Colorado
En español
Updates & Resources
About Us
Commitment to Equity
Health Providers
Partners
Grantee Login
Menu
Know the Impact
Let’s Clear the Air
LGBTQ+ Coloradans Are Healthier Together
American Indians Are Healthier Without Commercial Tobacco
Fighting Tobacco’s Harm on the Black Community
Behavioral Health Conditions are More Manageable Without Tobacco
The True Cost Of Tobacco
Colorado’s Rural Communities Are Healthier Without Tobacco
Prevent Use
Vape: Know the Facts
Quit Tobacco
I’m Thinking About Quitting
I’m Ready to Quit
I’m Quitting Again
I Want to Support Someone
Learn About Products
Unflavor the Lie
Cigarettes
Vaping / E-Cigarettes
Chew Tobacco
Hookah
Other Products
In the News
Protect Coloradans
Report a Smoking Violation
Health Systems Change
Retailer Licensing
Tobacco-Free Communities
Tobacco-Free Housing
Tobacco-Free Worksites
Tobacco-Free Colleges
Tobacco-Free Schools
21+ Tobacco Laws
About Us
Commitment to Equity
Health Providers
Partners
Together Colorado can turn the tide on tobacco
Decades of progress in fighting tobacco has saved the lives of countless Coloradans. Smoking rates in our state are at an all-time low. But far from retreating, the tobacco industry has shown deadly determination to hook new users – on new products.
Learn More
Where Progress Is Made
Our Commitment to Equity
Racist policies and practices — not individual choices or genetics — hurt the health and well-being of people of color. Racist practices prevent people of color from equal access to housing, food security, healthcare, transportation and other basic needs. These health injustices and the tobacco industry’s targeted marketing to communities of color must stop. We are committed to an anti-racist approach in our tobacco prevention and helping people quit.
Join the movement by learning more.
Explore
Quit smoking, vaping or chewing
People who get help are more likely to quit for good. Get coaching, free quit resources (like nicotine patches), and motivation from Coloradans who went tobacco-free.
Quit
Support someone who is quitting
When a loved one is ready to quit, there’s a lot you can do to help.
I want to support someone
Talk to youth about vaping
Nine out of 10 smokers start as kids, so prevention efforts must focus on them. Tobacco companies continue to target kids but their products and tactics have evolved.
Talk to youth about vaping
Try quitting again
People who get help are more likely to quit for good. Get coaching, free quit resources (like nicotine patches), and motivation from Coloradans who went tobacco-free.
Learn more
Get free coaching, patches and gum
People who get help are more likely to quit for good. Get coaching, free quit resources (like nicotine patches), and motivation from Coloradans who went tobacco-free.
Quit
Learn about COVID-19 and tobacco use
According to the CDC, people who smoke or vape may be at a higher risk from COVID-19 and its complications.
Learn about COVID-19 and tobacco use
Help protect Colorado communities from tobacco
Communities across Colorado are standing up to the tobacco industry and working to enact policies that protect people from tobacco marketing and secondhand smoke.
Support
Support my patients in quitting tobacco
Vaping devices, or e-cigarettes, are growing in popularity despite serious concerns about their health impacts. Get the facts about vape and all other tobacco products.
Learn more
Featured Stories
How Love Led Lourdes to Quit
How Thom Got Back on the Horse
Why Tobacco Lost its Magic
Sarah's Supportive Community
Tobacco and American Indian Communities
Skylar is Stronger Without Tobacco
A Doctor's Point of View
John's Reason to Quit
Talking to Friends and Family About Tobacco
Michelle's QuitLine Experience
A Surprising Tobacco Illness
The Personal Cost of Tobacco
facebook
twitter
email
youtube
Where Progress Is Made
Copyright © 2024  Tobacco Free Colorado
Privacy
In the News
About TFC
Accessibility
State of Colorado Accessibility Statement
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.
.
Cookie settings
ACCEPT
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Non-necessary
Non-necessary
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
SAVE & ACCEPT