My Colorado Journey
Skip to Main Content
Tools
Careers in Colorado
Career Cluster Survey
Program Finder
Occupation Finder
My Resume
Support Directory
Ed Returns ROI Calculator
Connecting Colorado
College Scorecard
College Opportunity Fund
Transportation Information
FAFSA4Caster
Career Ladder Identifier and Financial Forecaster
Colorado Career Trail Guide
Apprenticeship Colorado
Create Account
Sign In
As Professional
As Customer
Get Connected to Careers, Education and Resources
My Colorado Journey connects job seekers and students to careers, education planning and support resources through a guided process that drives action and goal completion. Start your journey today!
Create my account
CHOOSE A JOURNEY:
JOB SEEKERS
STUDENTS
PROFESSIONALS
JOB SEEKERS
STUDENTS
PROFESSIONALS
A career is a journey. Discover new paths and tools to prepare for a competitive career.
My Colorado Journey connects job seekers of all ages to transformational work and education opportunities. This powerful platform makes job and career planning easy and personalized by suggesting actions based on your ambitions and stage of life. Map out the steps to accomplish your goals, whether you want to land a new job or find a training program near you.
Design your path to success by exploring education and training opportunities to help you achieve your goals.
My Colorado Journey makes life planning easy and personalized. You can select goals and actions based on your ambitions and chart a path to achieve them. My Colorado Journey empowers you to choose a career and education path that’s unique to you—your interests, your talents and your dreams.
Learn how My Colorado Journey can help you better serve your clients and students.
My Colorado Journey connects adults, families and students to transformational career, education and training opportunities as well as state resources and benefit programs. By reducing duplication of state tools and services, My Colorado Journey saves everyone time, money and resources. Nothing replaces your expertise, so My Colorado Journey makes it easy for you to walk alongside adults and students as they use the platform. Make recommendations, view reports, and help turn action steps to success.
MY COLORADO JOURNEY RESOURCES
Learn more about My Colorado Journey
Go To Help Center
Create My Account
My Colorado Journey is brought to you by:
Colorado Department of Labor and Employment
Colorado Department of Higher Education
Colorado Workforce Development Council
Colorado Department of Human Services
Accessibility Statement
"My Journey to the future of work"
© 2019 - 2024
|
Privacy Policy
Support
Help Center