Colorado Division of Professions and Occupations Online Services
Skip to Main Content
Login
Register
Toggle navigation
Home
My Account
Online Services
License Verification
Verify a Colorado License
Online Complaint Submission
File a Complaint
Licensee/Discipline List Downloads
Download a List of Licensee/Discipline Information
Access Your Account
User ID
Password
Don't have an account?
Register
Forgot Password?
Forgot User ID?
Welcome
Colorado Division of Professions and Occupations Online Services
Welcome to the Division of Professions and Occupations Online Services Portal
To access all Online Services including Online New Applications, Online License Renewal*, Online Reinstatement or Online Address Change, please log in on the left hand side module.
*Note:
Online License Renewal does not open until approximately 4-6 weeks prior to your expiration date.
To access Online License Verification, Online Roster/Discipline Downloads or to File an Online Complaint, please use the drop down menu on the upper right labeled "Online Services".
IMPORTANT NOTICE:
Our Online Services is
not compatible
with mobile devices.  We recommend using a laptop or desktop computer with the most up to date version of Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge.  As most applications require some time to review and the ability to upload documents (pdf, docx, rtf, etc.), please
do not
use a smartphone or tablet to complete this process.
Need help logging in? Review our
Online Services Account Access Help Steps
.
Colorado Division of Professions and Occupations Online Services
Select this to Renew your license.
Select this to start or continue a New license application.
Select this to Reinstate an Expired License.
Select this to update your contact information.
Select this to view a pending application progress.
Select this to update your Healthcare Professions Profile.
To ensure you are receiving communication from the Division, verify your email address by visiting:
Online Services Change Email
The license/registration renewal period opens about 4 weeks before the expiration date. You may only renew your license during the renewal period.
If you have questions about your license, please contact the Division of Professions and Occupations at:
dora_dpo_licensing@state.co.us.
or 303-894-7800.
More Online Services
License Verification
Verify a Colorado License
Online Complaint Submission
File a Complaint
Licensee/Discipline List Downloads
Download a List of Licensee/Discipline Information
About Us
DORA's Division of Professions and Occupations licenses over 50 professions, occupations and businesses in Colorado.
Review our
Accessibility Statement
.
Contact Us
Find us at:
1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, CO 80202
Send mail to:
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies
Division of Professions and Occupations
1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, CO 80202
dora_dpo_licensing@state.co.us
303-894-7800
303-894-7693
Copyright © 1997-2024 Iron Data Solutions All Rights Reserved
V20140601_Release.1.25508
Close