Colorado Shines | Home
Home
For Families
For Programs
For Professionals
Unlicensed Cease Letters
Contact us
Login to Provider Hub
Login to PDIS
English
Spanish
Find a Program
English
|
Spanish
PDIS Login
Provider Hub Login
Introducing...
The CDEC Provider Hub
You can now log into all of your provider resources
(QRIS, Licensing, ATS, PDIS)
and
update your
                            operational status
all from the new
Provider Hub.
Close
MENU
Home
For Families
For Programs
For Professionals
Unlicensed Cease Letters
Contact us
FIND A PROGRAM ONLINE
Contact the program or call the Colorado Shines Child Care Referral Line at 877.338.2273 for more information.
Work or Home Address
Distance
- Choose -
1 Mile
5 Miles
15 Miles
30 Miles
Program Name
Search
ATTENTION CHILD CARE PROVIDERS: Click here to log in to the Provider Hub to update your operating status with Licensing. This will be necessary to access the various supports offered through the Department.
A Brighter Future
As a parent or caregiver, you want the best for the children in your life. From their health and wellness to their development and growth, the choices you make for them today will help to determine their success later on.
Learn More
Your Partner in Early Learning
Colorado Shines is a quality rating and improvement system that monitors and supports early learning programs. Its primary functions are to help participating programs and professionals improve their quality through assessment, training and tools, and to connect Colorado families with quality child care.
Learn More
Start Early, Start Strong.
Experts report that new neural connections in the brain form at rapid rates during the first few years of life – a fact that explains why early learning is a critical part of childhood. Colorado Shines helps parents and caregivers find a quality early learning program, where professionals work with children to maximize their potential and start kindergarten ready to learn.
Learn More
A Strong Foundation
Whether you are a parent or caregiver looking for an early learning program, or perhaps a professional wanting to enhance your own knowledge and skills, Colorado Shines is here to support you.
Learn More
L
The Best Things in Life Are Free
The Colorado Shines program is free for both families and early learning professionals. Additionally, if you’re a licensed child care provider, you’re invited to access the system and its wealth of information at no cost to your program.
Learn More
Take Our Annual Family Survey
Parents or guardians of children under the age of 6 years old are invited to take a survey to help the Colorado Department of Early Childhood ensure families have access to the quality early childhood programs and services of their choosing.
TAKE THE SURVEY
For Families
Your Child Care Choices
Find Child Care / Financial Support
Evaluate Child Care Options
Planning for Baby
Practice Safe Sleep
Prevent Suspensions and Expulsions
Learn About Child Development
Family Resources
FAQs
Unlicensed Cease and Desist Letters
For Programs
COVID-19: Information for Child Care Providers
Become a level 1 program
The ratings process
Advance to level 2
Reach levels 3-5
Military Child Care Fee Assistance Program Expansion
Communicate your rating
Program resources
FAQ's
For Professionals
Meet licensing requirements
Advance your program's quality level
Support young children
Grow your knowledge and career
FAQ's
Safe Sleep is for Every Baby Everywhere
Find a Program: 877.338.2273 -- Colorado Shines Help Desk: 844.447.4441
710 S. Ash Street, Denver, CO 80246
Colorado Department of Early Childhood
Sign up for our Newsletter
Sign up for our Newsletter
877.338.2273
710 S. Ash Street, Denver, CO 80246
Colorado Office of Early Childhood
Accessibility Statement
© 2024 Colorado Department of Early Childhood. All rights reserved.