EMS provider certification | Department of Public Health & Environment
Skip to main content
Search
Search
Menu
Home
About CDPHE
Toggle submenu
Leadership
Divisions
Strategic plan
Environmental Justice
Nondiscrimination policy and procedures
Office of Health Equity
Office of Public Health Practice, Planning, and Local Partnerships
Emergency preparedness and response
Toggle submenu
Hospital medical surge
Payment portal
Contact us
Public information
Toggle submenu
Press releases
Public records and requests
Find your local public health agency
Boards and Commissions
Toggle submenu
Regulatory documents
Regulations
Data
Health
Toggle submenu
Animal-related diseases
Birth, death, and other vital records
Communicable Diseases
Emergency care
Foodborne illness
Health facilities
Laboratory services
Medical marijuana
Prevention and wellness
Toggle submenu
Babies
Toggle submenu
Formula shortage resources
Chronic diseases
Health access
Healthy eating and active living
Toggle submenu
Celebrate 6 Award of Breastfeeding Excellence
Immunization
Injury prevention
Marijuana
Maternal and child health
Nurturing families and communities
Nutrition services
Office of Gun Violence Prevention
Oral health
Suicide prevention
Tobacco
Women's health
Sexual and reproductive health
Sexually transmitted infections and HIV
Tuberculosis (TB)
Environment
Toggle submenu
Air pollution
Toggle submenu
Climate Change
Toggle submenu
Colorado Greenhouse Gas Inventory
Chemicals from firefighting foam & other sources
Child care and school regulations
Commerce City - North Denver
Environmental agriculture
Environmental health and sustainability
Food safety and licensing
Hazardous materials and waste management
Toggle submenu
Environmental cleanup
Hazardous waste management
Radiation control program
Toggle submenu
Colorado Legacy Land/Lincoln Park Superfund site
Solid waste management
Laboratory services
Lead safety
Toggle submenu
Test and Fix Water for Kids
Toggle submenu
Test & Fix Water for Kids at Family Child Care Homes
Mercury
Self audit reporting
Sustainability programs
Toxicology and environmental epidemiology
Toggle submenu
Oil and gas and your health
Water quality
Toggle submenu
Clean water
Toggle submenu
Water Quality - Permits
Water Quality Standards
Drinking water – consumers
Drinking water – public water systems
Search records
Engage with the Water Quality Control Division
Funding - Grants and Loans
Payment portal
Report a concern or emergency
0
Home
EMS provider certification
EMS provider certification
Menu Reference Left
Emergency care
Emergency Medical Services
EMS providers
EMS provider certification
Fingerprinting instructions
EMS provider reciprocity
Becoming a critical care paramedic
Becoming a community paramedic
NREMT Transitions
Peer support - PATH4EMS
EMS provider licensing
Emergency Medical Responders (EMR)
EMS education programs
EMS for children
Ground and air ambulance
Ground ambulance licensing
Authorization to operate
Fingerprinting for owners/operators
Mandatory incident reporting
Air ambulance licensing and recognition
Pathways to an air ambulance license
Behavioral health secure transport
EMTS Radio communications
Trauma
Trauma designation process
Applications for trauma designation
Trauma designation guidance
Colorado trauma registry
Find a Colorado trauma facility
Trauma reviewer resources
Pediatric preparedness the ER
Funding
Apply for funding
Manage your award
CREATE education grants
Grant review schedule
Guides and resources
Funding maximums
Emergency grants
Statement of work change
Consultative visits
Data
EMS medical direction & waivers
Medical director registration
Scope of practice waivers
Waiver case reporting
Medical direction FAQ
Cardiac arrest, heart attack & stroke
Save a Life Colorado
Heart attack system of care
Stroke system of care
Engage with us
Councils, boards and task forces
State Emergency Medical and Trauma Services Advisory Council
Description of SEMTAC committees
Emergency Medical Practice Advisory Council
Regional Emergency Medical and Trauma Services Advisory Councils
EMS system sustainability task force
Ground ambulance licensing task force
Grant improvement task force
CIHCS sunset review
Stroke advisory board
Coroners standards & training board
EMTS organizational profiles
EMS Compact
Rules and regulations
CARES programs
Find a CARES program
Contact EMTS
Visit the Health Facilities webpage
#FFFFFF
Initial
Renewal
Upgrade
Reinstate
Provisional
#FFFFFF
Initial EMS provider certification
To become an EMS provider in Colorado, you must hold a current National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians registration and apply for certification on the Online Application Tracking Hub. Colorado issues a 3-year certificate to first-time EMS providers whose applications meet all
initial certification requirements
. You must create an OATH account to start the online application process.
Create an OATH account
Application steps
Initial applicants for Colorado EMS provider certification, must first:
Complete a full EMS provider course at the level you wish to practice at.
Find an initial Colorado EMS education program
.
Gain a NREMT registration by passing both NREMT exams (written and psychomotor).
National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians
.
Create an
OATH account
to apply for certification.
Submit the "Application for Initial Certification" within your OATH account.
Submit a fingerprint-based criminal history record information search to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.
Both CBI and FBI results must be requested.
Fingerprints must be submitted within 60 days prior to or following the submission of your OATH application.
Failure to submit an OATH application within 60 days of getting fingerprinted may require you to submit a new fingerprint-based background check with all of the associated fees.
View detailed instructions
Next steps
Wait for the fingerprint sample to be processed by the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.
The department will receive the fingerprinting results from the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.
Results will be added to your OATH application for further processing.
Await for a notification from the department of the approval or rejection of your application. Common rejection reasons include missing required documentation, application input errors or other issues.
Once approved as a Colorado EMS provider, the department will email instructions on printing the Colorado EMS provider certificate.
Application requirements
Initial and reinstatement applicants for Colorado EMS provider certification must gather the following prior to applying for certification:
A fingerprint-based background check that's been submitted to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation within 60 days prior to or following the submission of your OATH application.
​Prior criminal history record searches via other organizations are not acceptable. New fingerprints must be collected and submitted to the CBI for the EMS provider certification process.
Failure to submit an OATH application within 60 days of getting fingerprinted may require you to submit a new fingerprint-based background check with all of the associated fees.
A valid NREMT registration at the provider level you intend to practice at.
An image of your current and valid CPR card.
An image of your current and valid ACLS card (Paramedic applicants only).
More information
Instructions for obtaining your fingerprint-based background check
Find an EMS education program
Approved CPR and ACLS programs for Colorado state certification
Becoming a paramedic with critical care (P-CC) endorsement
Becoming a paramedic with community paramedic (P-CP) endorsement
Criminal conviction policy
Colorado EMS education, certification and scope of practice rules - 6 CCR 1015-3
Reciprocity in Colorado
Contact other state emergency medical services offices
#FFFFFF
Renewal EMS provider certification
Emergency medical technicians in Colorado must renew their state certification every three years. EMS providers who are within 6 months of their certificate expiration date are eligible to apply for a renewal of EMS certification. Colorado accepts a current valid NREMT number as proof of the required continuing education and skills competency. EMS providers who are not registered with the NREMT can renew their certification using the state renewal method. The state renewal method requires EMS providers to:
Gain the
required amount of continuing education
for their practice level.
Demonstrate skills competency (your education program will verify).
Log on to your
OATH account
and apply for renewal certification (all renewal applicants have an account).
Specify a Colorado-recognized EMS education program to verify your CE and skills within your OATH application.
Continuing education may be obtained from various sources, but you must contact and choose one recognized program to verify your CE and perform a skills test. Use the links below to find a Colorado EMS education program authorized by the department to verify CE and skills.
More information
Find a recognized EMS education program
.
Continuing education hour requirements for renewal applicants
.
OATH certification portal tutorial
.
Accepted CPR and ACLS cards
.
#FFFFFF
Certification level upgrade
Certified EMS providers may want to upgrade to a higher level of certification. All certification upgrade applicants must:
Complete and pass a course at the higher certification level.
Pass the NREMT written and psychomotor exams.
Obtain your new NREMT number at the higher level.
Apply for the Colorado certification upgrade in your
OATH account
using your new NREMT number.
Intermediate-99 in Colorado
Colorado offers EMS certification at the Intermediate-99 level. Since the NREMT no longer recognizes EMT Intermediate-99, they no longer issue NREMT numbers for that level of practice. When applying for Colorado EMS certification, applicants who wish to certify at the Intermediate-99 level must upload documentation from the NREMT into their OATH application that shows they’ve passed both written and psychomotor tests.Those currently certified at the Intermediate-99 level can use the State CE and skills attestation method to renew their certification.
#FFFFFF
Reinstatement of certification
EMS providers whose certification has lapsed more than 6 months are considered reinstatement applicants. This means they must complete the Colorado initial certification/license application process. Initial applicants must present a valid NREMT registration at the intended level of practice.
More information
National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians
National Registry of Emergency Technicians (NREMT) transitions
#FFFFFF
#FFFFFF
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South Denver, CO 80246
#FFFFFF
: 303-692-2000
Information
About CDPHE
Get in touch
Locations
Press releases
Careers
CDPHE privacy notice
Payment portal
Nondiscrimination
Funding opportunities
Resources
Find your local public health agency
Marijuana Health Info
Colorado Health Information Data Set (CoHID)
Environmental Public Health Tracking
Office of Public Health Practice, Planning, and Local Partnerships (OPHP)
Air Quality - Monitoring, Modeling and Data
Connect with us
Facebook
|
Twitter
|
YouTube
|
Instagram
Google translate
Accessibility statement and support
#FFFFFF
placeholder
© 2024 State of Colorado
Transparency Online
General Notices
Colorado Official State Web Portal