File a Complaint - Colorado Attorney General | Colorado Attorney General
Skip to Content
Phil Weiser
Colorado Attorney General
File A Complaint
About Us
Attorney General Bio & Photos
Vision & Values
Senior Staff & Organization
Colorado Attorney General Annual Report
Attorney General Opinions
Budget & Accounting
Contact Our Office
Sections
Administration
Business & Licensing
Civil Litigation & Employment Law
Consumer Protection
Criminal Appeals
Criminal Justice
Natural Resources & Environment
Division of Community Engagement
Revenue & Utilities
State Services
Careers
Attorney & Other Non-Classified Positions
Fellowships
Internships
Classified Staff Positions
Other Opportunities to Join our Team
Media Center
Press Room
Colorado Open Records Act – CORA
Resources
Survivors of Childhood Sexual Abuse
Victim Assistance
Data Protection Laws
Colorado Privacy Act
Funding Opportunities
Office of Financial Empowerment
Code of Colorado Regulations
Colorado Revised Statutes
Transparency Online Project (TOPS)
Licensing
Business Resources
Collection Agencies & Debt Collectors
UCCC Licensing & Notification
Debt Management Services Providers
Health Club Bonds
Repossessors
Student Loan Servicer Licensing
Telemarketing
Recursos en español
File a Complaint
WHY FILE A COMPLAINT?
Every complaint we receive gives us insights into problems that people are experiencing in Colorado and helps us identify trends and prioritize problems. Information from the public is vital in helping us document those trends and, when appropriate, pursue investigations and file lawsuits on behalf of the public. The result: better outcomes for consumers and businesses and a better marketplace for Coloradans.
Under certain circumstances, the department may seek to resolve disputes between consumers and businesses through informal negotiations overseen by the department through the
Consumer Mediation Program
. Consumers whose complaints are selected for this approach will be notified by the department.
READY TO FILE YOUR COMPLAINT?  CLICK ON A PROBLEM AREA BELOW TO GET STARTED
Please note: The Attorney General’s Office does not have authority to provide legal advice or legal representation to individuals and does not have the authority to investigate or prosecute your individual case.
Credit | Debt
Credit and Debt issues can be widespread and involve a variety of issues.  Examples include issues with consumers lenders, retail credit sellers, finance companies, rent-to-own, collection agencies, debt settlement companies, credit counseling agencies, as well as student loan servicers.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Data Privacy | Data Breach
A growing list of entities – including your employer, your doctor, your insurer, your bank and many online companies – collect and maintain your personal data. Colorado’s data privacy and data protection laws are designed to give you transparency into and control over the way that companies use your data, and require companies to maintain appropriate data security measures.
Colorado’s new data privacy law, the Colorado Privacy Act, protects personal data of Colorado residents by requiring companies to: (1) provide privacy notices disclosing the way the personal data of will be collected and used; and (2) obtain consent before collecting and using that resident’s sensitive data. The Colorado Privacy Act also gives Colorado residents rights to understand and exercise some control over the way their personal data is used.
Colorado’s data breach law requires companies to notify consumers when their personal information may have been compromised.
The Colorado Attorney General has authority to pursue civil actions when companies fail to fulfill their obligations under the Colorado Privacy Act and under Colorado’s data breach law.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Deprivation of Rights by a Governmental Authority
Governmental Authority
Do you have a complaint about a government actor or agency that deprived someone of his or her legal rights?
The Colorado Attorney General has authority to pursue civil actions when there is reasonable cause to believe that a governmental authority has engaged in a pattern or practice that deprives persons of their legal rights.
Click below to file a complaint.
Environmental Crimes
Environmental crimes involve air and water quality, and hazardous spills.  Examples include illegal use, storage or dumping of hazardous waste or other materials.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Insurance | Medicaid Fraud
Insurance Fraud
Insurance fraud can take many forms.  Common examples include making false statements or providing false documentation, making false claims, staged accidents, and misconduct by insurance agents.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Medicaid Fraud, Patient Abuse and Neglect
Medicaid Fraud, Abuse and Neglect includes fraudulent conduct relating to Medicaid services, abuse, neglect, and exploitation of individuals in Medicaid funded facilities, and recovery of Medicaid over-payments.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Products | Services
Most issues we see are related to the buying and selling of products or services.  Common issues include product or quality issues, incorrect billing, refunds and returns, repairs, problems with a service, or claims of false advertisements, deceptive business practices, or otherwise unscrupulous behavior.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Scams | Telephone Calls | Text Messages | Emails
Scammers use email, mail, the Internet, social media, telephone calls and text messages in an effort to steal your identity and your money.  Examples include government agency impersonation scams (such as Law Enforcement, Internal Revenue Service, and the Social Security Administration), family and extortion related scams, fake checks and deceptive mailers, bogus sweepstakes awards, travel and timeshare scams along with fake power/utility debt collection scams.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Securities | Investments
Investment fraud takes many forms including "Ponzi" schemes, pyramid schemes, and late-day trading. Securities fraud can also include false information, pump-and-dump schemes, or trading on insider information.
Click below to learn more and to file a complaint.
Something Else
Something Else
Uncertain about what form to use?   Not a victim but you noticed something suspicious?  Can’t find what you are looking for?  No problem, we want to hear from you.
Click below to file a complaint.
Open Internet - Internet Service Provider
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has authority over internet service providers that prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices affecting commerce. Some practices that may fall under this purview include: paid prioritization of internet content by your internet service providers; throttling bandwidth or otherwise impairing or degrading lawful internet traffic on the basis of content, application, service, or use; blocking any lawful internet content, applications, services, or devices; or otherwise interfering with the open internet.
If your internet service provider has engaged in any practice that violates federal law regarding interference with the open internet, you may report it to the FTC. The FTC may investigate these practices to determine if they violate the FTC Act and whether further action is appropriate.
Click the button below to report a business practice involving an Internet Service Provider or another consumer protection matter.
Report Waste, Fraud and Abuse
Pursuant to SB16-56, the Attorney General is a designated review agency for information/documentation that is believed to be confidential and that is evidence of waste, fraud and abuse. Pursuant to the new law, state employees may submit information that they believe to be confidential or not subject to disclosure under the Colorado Open Records Act (“CORA”) to the Attorney General’s office for a determination of whether the information can be made public without violating the law. If a state employee submits information believed to be confidential to the Attorney General, it should not be shared publicly, including with members of the Colorado General Assembly, until a determination regarding its confidentiality has been made. The Attorney General is statutorily required to make such a determination in writing within 30 days of receipt of the information.
NOTE:
If the alleged waste, fraud and abuse involves an employee of the Department of Law, the information should not be submitted to the Attorney General, but should instead be submitted to either the Office of Legislative Legal Services or the Office of State Court Administrator, both of which are designated review agencies.
To submit information and/or documentation for review, please e-mail or send it to the following:
reportwastefraudabuse@coag.gov
ATTENTION: Chief Deputy Attorney General
Ralph L. Carr Colorado Judicial Center
1300 Broadway, 10th Floor
Denver, Colorado 80203
Resources
Need More Info?
Need more information?  We have compiled information about various topics to help connect you with the right people.  Click on an area below to learn more.
Connect with the Right People
Automotive
Dealership Purchases
New and Used Purchases through Colorado Auto Dealers
New and used auto purchases handled through a dealer are regulated by the Colorado Department of Revenue –
Auto Industry Enforcement Division
.  Consumers with questions or concerns regarding their auto purchase should contact the Auto Industry Enforcement Division.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Revenue – Auto Industry Enforcement Division
Right to Cancel
Contrary to popular belief, there is no three-day right to cancel on a car purchase.  If a consumer signs a contract to purchase a vehicle, he or she has bought the car and must abide by the contract stipulations or face potential consequences, including legal action.
If someone cancels or backs out of a deal, the dealer may or may not hold them accountable for the entire amount -- it is up to the dealer. But if they allow the contract to be voided, the dealer can only keep $500.00 of the consumer's deposit, unless a greater loss to the dealership can be substantiated, such as mileage or damage to the vehicle.
While there is no three-day right to cancel on a car purchase, deception or misrepresentations during the sales process may violate certain
Colorado Department of Revenue – Auto Industry Enforcement Division
regulations.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Revenue – Auto Industry Enforcement Division
Individual or Private Seller Purchases
Auto purchases made through individuals or a private party are not typically regulated thought the Auto Industry Enforcement Division.  Rather, traditional contract rules typically apply to any private auto purchase transaction, including vehicles purchased “AS IS”.
As a result, consumers should have any vehicle checked out by an independent certified mechanic and should fully understand all contract terms prior to executing/signing a purchase agreement.  Issues or disputes that cannot be resolved amicably may require consultation of a private attorney.
Automobile Repair
Many consumers feel most vulnerable when dealing with the inevitable need to take their car to a mechanic, whether it is for minor service or major repairs. The Motor Vehicle Repair Act, C.R.S., 42-9-101 to 113, was adopted in order to provide consumers with some control over what can easily become a major expenditure.
Under that Act:
Repair garages must obtain a consumer’s written consent to any repairs, before those repairs are performed
A repair garage must provide a written or oral estimate of all costs associated with a particular repair
A repair garage may not collect any charge for labor or parts in excess of the estimate plus ten percent of that estimate or twenty-five dollars, whichever is less, without the consent of the consumer
To report possible violations of The Motor Vehicle Repair Act, contact your district attorney’s office.
To find your District Attorney, please visit:
http://www.cdacweb.com/
Colorado Lemon Law
The Colorado Lemon Law may require a manufacturer of a new car to replace that car or to repurchase that car if a defect or condition that substantially impairs the use and market value of the car cannot be corrected.  Colorado's Lemon Law, C.R.S. 42-10-101 through 42-10-107, covers only new self- propelled vehicles, including pickups and vans, but does not cover motor homes and motorcycles. It is unclear whether Colorado’s Lemon Law applies to leased vehicles.
To qualify for relief under the Lemon Law, the vehicle must have been in for repair four or more times for the same defect; or the vehicle is out of service for a cumulative total of 30 or more business days during the warranty term or one year after purchase, whichever comes first..
Complaint filing process for Lemon Law
:
To initiate the Lemon Law process, consumers must first notify the manufacturer by certified mail of the problem after their car has met the criteria outlined in the previous paragraph. (Consult your owner's manual to find out where to write and for specific regarding your auto manufactures complaint procedures).  Consumers then can participate in an informal dispute settlement procedure if the manufacturer offers it.
If the settlement offered through the dispute settlement procedure is unsatisfactory to the consumer, he/she can file suit. The suit must be filed within six months following the expiration date of any warranty term or within one year following the date of the original delivery of a motor vehicle to a consumer, whichever is the earlier date.  If a manufacturer has established or participates in an informal dispute resolution procedure (for example, through the Better Business Bureau), you must pursue that remedy before you can sue.
Better Business Bureau Auto Line
- 1-800-955-5100
Odometer Fraud
Odometer fraud is the illegal practice of rolling back an odometer to make it appear that a motor vehicle has lower mileage than it actually does.  Any person who disconnects, resets, or alters the odometer on a motor vehicle with the intent to defraud a subsequent purchaser or lessee is in violation of federal law.
If you suspect odometer fraud with a vehicle purchase, report it:
Private/Individual Purchase:
District Attorney
Private Attorney
Small Claims Court
Dealer Purchase:
Colorado Department of Revenue – Auto Industry Enforcement Division
National Purchase:
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
Vehicle Safety
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) primary mission is to “save lives, prevent injuries, and reduce economic costs due to road traffic crashes.” One of the most important ways in which the agency carries out its safety mandate is to issue Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS).
Through these rules, NHTSA strives to reduce the number of crashes and to minimize the consequences of those crashes that do occur.  To learn more about vehicle safety standards or to report vehicle safety concerns, contact the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
Attorneys, Courts, and Legal Resources
Legal Advice
Please note the Attorney General is not authorized to serve as legal counsel or advisor to individual citizens and is prohibited in providing legal advice, interpretation, or counsel to private citizens.
Should you desire a legal opinion relating to your specific situation, we recommend contacting a private attorney or one of the services that provide legal assistance through the local bar association and/or other entities.  Please review this resource guide for helpful legal resources.
Attorney Discipline
The Colorado Supreme Court
Attorney Regulation Counsel
licenses and monitors the conduct of attorneys practicing law within Colorado.  Complaints or allegations against your attorney should be reported to the Attorney Regulation Counsel for review.
For more information, please visit:
Attorney Regulation Counsel
Should you desire a legal opinion relating to your specific situation, we recommend contacting a private attorney or one of the services that provide legal assistance through the local bar association and other entities.
Colorado Revised Statutes
Visit
here
for access to all Colorado Revised Statutes, the United States Constitution, the Colorado Constitution, Colorado Court Rules, and Colorado Advanced Legislative Service, including the Colorado Consumer Protection Act (CCPA).
For more information, please visit:
Lexis Nexis - Colorado Revised Statutes
Please note the Attorney General is not authorized to serve as legal counsel or advisor to individual citizens and is prohibited in providing legal advice, interpretation, or counsel to private citizens.
Should you desire a legal opinion relating to your specific situation, we recommend contacting a private attorney or one of the services that provide legal assistance through the local bar association and/or other entities.  Please review this resource guide for helpful legal resources.
District Attorney
The
District Attorney (DA)
generally investigates and prosecutes crimes committed within their jurisdiction.  Not only does the District Attorney have criminal authority to prosecute, the District Attorney's within Colorado have authority under the Colorado Consumer Protection Act (CCPA) to address certain economic crimes and civil matters in violation of the CCPA.
For more information, please visit:
http://www.cdacweb.com/
Judicial Discipline
The
Colorado Commission on Judicial Discipline
is charged with monitoring the conduct, under certain ethical principles, of the judiciary of the state courts of Colorado, including judges of County and District courts; judges of the Court of Appeals, and justices of the Supreme Court.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Commission on Judicial Discipline
Legal Assistance and Help Finding an Attorney
Find an Attorney
While the Attorney General's Office is unable to provide you attorney referrals, please contact the
Colorado Bar Association
to find an attorney by practice area and to ensure your attorney is licensed and in good standing to practice law in Colorado.
For more information, please visit:
https://www.cobar.org/
Colorado Legal Help Center
The
Colorado Legal Help Center
is an initiative developed in collaboration with the Colorado Supreme Court for consumers seeking help from a lawyer, help with various legal issues, and providing access to legal materials.  The Colorado Legal Help Center is an excellent resource that contains legal information on a variety of issues.
For more information, please visit:
http://www.coloradolegalhelpcenter.us/
Colorado Legal Services
Colorado Legal Services
provides legal assistance to members of the public that fall within certain income guidelines.  While this organization does not handle any criminal or traffic matters, they can assist with civil matters such as family law, bankruptcy, public benefit, landlord/tenant, and senior citizen issues.
Consumers who are low-income or are without income may qualify for assistance and should contact Colorado Legal Services directly for a review of their circumstance.
For more information, please visit:
https://coloradolegalservices.org/
Small Claims Court
Small claims court involves disputes for amounts under $7,500.00 and can only handle certain kinds of claims. Small court claims generally are:
To recover money or property.
Performance of a contract or to set aside a contract.
Comply with restrictive covenants.
Additional information is available from the Colorado Judicial Branch.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Small Claims Court
Business and Professional Regulation
The Consumer Credit Unit (CCU)
The Consumer Credit Unit regulates (through licensure/registration programs) companies and individuals involved in consumer lending, debt collection, and debt management. The Unit regulates supervised lenders, credit sellers, credit counseling and debt settlement companies, and collection agencies.
The Consumer Credit Enforcement Unit investigates and prosecutes violations of Colorado laws that provide protections for consumers in dealings with consumer lenders, finance companies, retail credit sellers, debt settlement companies, credit counseling agencies, and debt collectors.  The Unit also investigates and prosecutes lenders who attempt to evade Colorado laws that cap consumer loan interest rates and fees.
For more information, please visit:
https://coag.gov/office-sections/consumer-protection/consumer-credit-unit/
Department of Regulatory Agencies
The
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA)
includes nine separate divisions and the Executive Director’s Office.  DORA’s divisions include over 40 boards, commissions, and advisory committees. The Division of Registrations alone regulates over 50 professions, occupations and businesses in the state totaling over 345,000 people.
From accountants, architects, and anesthesiologists to boxing, barbers, and electricians, DORA regulates most professions operating within the state.  Check first with DORA for licensing and disciplinary records prior to engaging in business with a company.
While DORA regulates most professions within Colorado, other state and local agencies have certain regulatory authority and licensing and registration requirements.  In addition to checking with the various state agencies, consumers should also check with their
local city and county authorities
regarding localized registration and licensing requirements.
Local Agency Directory
Repossessors
Under
Colorado law (§ 4-9-629, C.R.S.)
, any person who is retained by a secured party to recover or take possession of collateral upon default is required to be bonded for property damage to or conversion of such collateral in the amount of at least $50,000. Such bond shall be filed with and drawn in favor of the Colorado Attorney General.
To file a repossessor bond, send the following items to the Colorado Attorney General, Consumer Protection Unit, 1300 Broadway, 7th Floor, Denver, Colorado 80203:
1) Completed
Application for Repossessor Bond
(including a current partnership agreement or a Certificate of Good Standing or Certificate of Authority from the Colorado Secretary of State, as appropriate);
2) Original surety bond fully executed in the amount of at least $50,000 drawn in favor of the Colorado Attorney General (use
Surety Bond Form
); and
3) Non-refundable filing fee in the amount of $150, payable to the Colorado Department of Law.
For more information, please visit:
https://coag.gov/licensing/repossessors/
Telemarketing
Under
Colorado law (§§ 6-1-301 to 305, C.R.S.)
a “commercial telephone seller” may not conduct business in this state without having registered with the Colorado Attorney General at least ten days prior to the conduct of such business.  This applies to any commercial telephone seller located in Colorado and to any commercial telephone seller contacting prospective purchasers in Colorado.
To register, you may complete the
Registration/Renewal Form
and return it to this office with the initial $200 telemarketing registration fee. (Make checks payable to the “Colorado Department of Law.”) Subsequent annual renewal requires a properly completed
Registration/Renewal Form
and a $100 processing fee.
Exemption Forms
are also available to provide notice to the Attorney General of a claimed exemption from the registration requirements of the Colorado Telemarketing Fraud Prevention Act.
PLEASE NOTE that this procedure does NOT waive your obligation to register as a Telemarketer with the
Colorado No-Call program
. In order to complete that process, please contact the Colorado No-Call vendor at
www.ColoradoNoCall.com
.
If you have questions regarding the list, you may call Chris Lowe at the Colorado Public Utilities Commission: 303-894-2074.
Civil Rights and Discrimination
Deprivation of Rights by a Governmental Authority
Following the enactment of Senate Bill 20-217 (C.R.S. § 24-31-113), the Colorado Attorney General has authority to pursue civil actions when there is reasonable cause to believe that a governmental authority has engaged in a pattern or practice that deprives persons of rights protected by the constitution or laws of the United States or the state of Colorado. Pattern-or-practice cases focus on systemic reform of widespread misconduct by government entities, and do not address individual instances of misconduct. After you complete this form, we will review the information as part of our work to collect data and identify patterns or practices of unlawful conduct.
Please note: The Attorney General’s Office does not have authority to investigate or prosecute your individual case.  If you seek a criminal or civil investigation or another remedy for your case on an individual basis, please contact your local law enforcement agency, district attorney’s office, the United States Department of Justice, or a private attorney.
To file a report against a governmental agency, please visit:
Deprivation of Rights by Governmental Authority Report Form
Colorado Civil Rights Division
The
Colorado Civil Rights Division
(CCRD) is charged with enforcement of the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act (CADA). CADA prohibits discrimination based on protected class in employment, housing, and places of public accommodation. The CCRD enforces CADA primarily through the investigation of complaints of discrimination, but also through mediation and education.
For more information, please visit:
https://ccrd.colorado.gov/
United States Civil Rights Division
The
Civil Rights Division
of the Department of Justice, created in 1957 by the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, works to uphold the civil and constitutional rights of all Americans, particularly some of the most vulnerable members of our society. The Division enforces federal statutes prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, disability, religion, familial status and national origin.
For more information, please visit:
https://www.justice.gov/crt
Contractors and Home Repair
Electricians and Electrical Contractors
The Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies -
Division of Professions State Electrical Board
regulates and licenses electricians.   The Board’s mission is to protect the health of the public by enforcing state electrical statutes. The board conducts regular inspections of the installations that they regulate, and review special requests for exceptions to the code.
The Board activities include licensing electricians, apprentices, and electrical contractors, investigating complaints about the licensed and unlicensed practice in Colorado, and disciplining those who violate the law.  If you have a complaint about an electrician or would like additional licensing and discipline history of your electrician, contact the Colorado Electrical Board.  In addition, you may also wish to check with your local government officials to determine any other licensing requirements in your area.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Electrical Board
Local Government Entities
General Contractors
Home repair fraud can be one of the most devastating events a homeowner can go through.  While legitimate contractors work hard to build their reputation and brand, fraudulent contractors operate with one task at hand - getting your money.
Before you select your contractor, check with the
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA)
and your
local government
to determine if your contractor is properly licensed.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies
Local Government Entities
If a contractor has taken your money and not completed the work, contact your local law enforcement agency and make a theft report.
District Attorney
Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC)
Depending on your HVAC installation and repair contractor, various regulatory licenses may be required by both the State of Colorado and your local government agencies.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies
Local Government Entities
Mechanics Liens and Lien Waivers
Mechanics Lien
Any subcontractor, vendor, or material supplier who provides goods or services for the construction of your home or for home improvements, may be entitled to place a lien on your property if he or she is not paid in full. A mechanic’s lien is enforceable against your property only if a lawsuit is filed within 6 months after the last work is done on your property. However, you may have an affirmative defense to any action to enforce such a lien if you have paid your contractor and satisfied you legal obligations under your contract with your contractor.
Lien Waiver (Release)
It is always a good idea in connection with any major construction or home improvement project to require your contractor to obtain lien waivers from subcontractors and suppliers to protect yourself and your assets.   A lien waiver ensures that anyone working on your property waives their right to place a lien on your property.   If you are interested in a lien waiver, it is always a good idea to consult with an attorney prior to executing any contract.
Plumbers and Plumbing Contractors
The Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies - Division of Professions and Occupations
State Plumbing Board
regulates and licenses plumbers.  The Board’s mission is to protect the health of the public by enforcing the state plumbing statutes.  The Board activities include licensing and registration of plumbers, apprentices, and plumbing contractors, investigating complaints about the licensed and unlicensed practice in Colorado, and disciplining those who violate the law.
If you have a complaint about a plumber or would like additional licensing and discipline history of your plumber, contact the State Plumbing Board.  In addition, you may also wish to check with your local government officials to determine any other licensing requirements in your area.
For more information, please visit:
State Plumbing Board
Local Government Entities
COVID-19
General Information
General Information
Stay informed and updated on the status and data trends of all 64 counties in Colorado:  To learn more, please visit:
https://covid19.colorado.gov/
For additional information, please visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Guidelines:
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html
Governor Mandates and Executive Orders
For more information on the Governor's Mandates and Executive Orders, please visit:
https://covid19.colorado.gov/public-health-executive-orders
Housing and Evictions
For information regarding housing restrictions or evictions during the COVID-19 crisis, visit:
https://cdola.colorado.gov/housing-covid19-eviction
Violations of the Executive Orders
Unsure if an individual or business is violating a COVID-19 Public Health or State Executive Order?  Contact the Governor's Office to review COVID-19 protocols and to submit a report:
Public Health and Governor Executive orders:
https://covid19.colorado.gov/public-health-executive-orders
COVID-19 Related Issues and Concerns?
https://covid19.colorado.gov/CovidConcerns
Pricing Issues
In response to the Coronavirus pandemic, Colorado Governor Jared Polis signed into law HB20-1414 (
https://leg.colorado.gov/bills/hb20-1414
), prohibiting sellers to charge unreasonably excessive prices following the declaration of a disaster or disaster emergency.
If you suspect price gouging by a retailer or business, we want to know about it.  To file a complaint, please visit:
https://coag.gov/file-complaint/
Scams
Unfortunately, scammers do not take breaks during a pandemic.  For more information on how to protect yourself from Coronavirus scams., please visit:
https://coag.gov/resources/coronavirus/
If you suspect a COVID-19 related scam, we want to know about it.  To file a complaint, please visit:
https://coag.gov/file-complaint/
Credit and Debt
Banks and Credit Unions
Various state and federal agencies regulate different types of banks and credit unions operating throughout the state and across the nation.  To learn more about general banking rules, regulations, and where to file a report against your bank, you may wish to check with the following:
Credit Unions
Colorado Chartered:
State Division of Financial Services
Nationally Chartered:
National Credit Union Association
Banks
State Chartered Banks:
Colorado Division of Banking
Nationally Chartered Banks:
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Credit Cards and Surcharges
Credit Cards
Colorado:  If a credit card is issued by a Colorado company, bank, or credit union, those cards must comply with the Colorado Uniform Consumer Credit Code.
Although Colorado businesses must conform to the Colorado regulations, most credit cards are issued by national institutions located in other states.  For additional information regarding nationally issued bank cards, contact the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Colorado Issued Credit Cards
Department of Law
Consumer Credit Unit
Nationally Issued Credit Cards
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Credit Card Surcharges
Under Colorado law, it is illegal for any merchant to impose a surcharge on a purchaser or lessee who elects to use a credit or charge card in lieu of payment by cash, check, or similar means.  A surcharge is any additional amount imposed at the time of the sales or lease transaction by the merchant, seller, or lessor that increases the charge to the purchaser or lessee for the privilege of using a credit or charge card and includes those cards pursuant to which unpaid balances are payable on demand.
This prohibition does NOT apply to convenience fees charged by a state or local government entity which accepts payment by credit or charge card and does NOT apply to debit cards.
A discount offered by a seller or lessor for the purpose of inducing payment by cash, check, or other means not involving the use of a seller or lender credit card does NOT constitute a finance charge if such discount is offered to all prospective purchasers and its availability is disclosed to all prospective purchasers clearly and conspicuously.
For more information, please visit:
Department of Law
Consumer Credit Unit
Credit Reports and Credit Freezes
Credit Reports
A credit report is a report compiled and issued by a consumer reporting agency which lists activity that may affect your credit standing, including your creditors, the amount of your debts, your credit limits, late payments, defaults, charge-offs, repossessions and bankruptcies.
Consumers are entitled to request a free credit report every 12 months from each of the three main credit reporting companies by using:
AnnualCreditReport.com
or by calling (877) 322-8228.
Consumers can contact one of the following consumer reporting agencies to correct inaccurate information in their credit file or to obtain other information about their credit history:
Equifax Credit Information Services
- (800) 864-2978
Experian
- (888) 397-3742
TransUnion
- (800) 916-8800
For more information about credit reporting agencies or to file a complaint, please contact:
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
Credit Freeze
Colorado consumers have the option of requesting any consumer reporting agency (credit bureau) to place a security freeze on your credit report. You will be able to place a security freeze on your credit reports by making a request to each consumer reporting agency you want to place a security freeze on your file. Once a security freeze is in place, the consumer reporting agency will not be able to release your credit report, or any information contained in that report, without your prior express authorization.
To view information on requesting a security freeze from the three largest consumer reporting agencies, visit the following web sites:
Experian
Transunion
Equifax
If you want potential creditors to be able to access information on your credit report, you must request that the freeze be temporarily lifted and provide the following information:
Proper identification
The unique personal identification number and password provided by the consumer reporting agency
The proper information regarding the third party who is to receive the credit report or the time period that the report shall be available.
The consumer reporting agency must remove a security freeze within three business days of receiving a request for removal from you for a fee, not to exceed $12.00.  Remember, failure to timely or correctly request a temporary or permanent removal of a security freeze on your account may result in the loss or denial of credit.
Note: A security freeze placed on a consumer’s credit report will not block all access to that report, or to the information contained in that report, such as current or prospective assignee of a financial obligation and from a state or local agency, law enforcement, the courts, private collection agency, or persons acting pursuant to a court order, warrant, or subpoena authorizing the use of the credit report.
Debt Collection
The Colorado Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (CFDCPA) is a state law that governs the actions of debt collectors and collection agencies. It provides consumers with certain rights and restricts the practices collection agencies may use to attempt to collect debts. For example, the law prohibits collection agencies from using harassment, misleading, and unfair practices. The law prohibits unnecessary disclosure of the debt to parties not obligated to pay the debt. The law does not apply to creditors collecting their own debts.  The Debt Collection Program oversees the licensure of collection agencies, investigates complaints, and takes disciplinary or legal action when a collection agency violates the law.
For more information, please visit:
Collection Agency Regulation
Debt Management and Credit Counseling
The Colorado Uniform Debt Management Services Act (DMSA) is a state law that regulates companies that offer and provide debt management services to Colorado residents.  The Debt-Management Program oversees the registration of non-profit and for-profit credit counseling and debt settlement companies, investigates complaints about providers, and takes disciplinary or legal action when a debt management services provider violates the law.
For more information, please visit:
Debt Management Program
Lending and Finance
The Colorado Consumer Credit Code (UCCC) is a state law that regulates the terms and conditions of consumer credit in the State of Colorado. It sets maximum rates and charges, requires disclosure of the cost of credit so consumers may shop for the best rates, and provides remedies for consumers on default. The UCCC does not apply to first mortgage residential acquisition and refinance loans except for its sections on disclosures of the cost of credit, certain consumer remedies, and administrative powers. Most other consumer credit transactions such as payday loans, automobile loans, second mortgages, state-issued credit cards, and signature loans are subject to the UCCC.  The Lending Program oversees licensure and notification of lenders and creditors, investigates complaints about lenders and creditors, and takes disciplinary or legal action when a lender or creditor violates the law.
For more information, please visit:
Lending Program (Uniform Consumer Credit Code)
Student Loan Servicing
The Student Loan Servicers Act (SLSA) is a state law that regulates companies that service student loans owed by Colorado residents.  The Student Loan Servicing Program oversees the licensure of federal and non-federal student loan servicers, investigates complaints about student loan servicers, and takes disciplinary or legal action when a servicer violates the law.
For more information, please visit:
Student Loan Servicing Program
Education
Colorado
The
Colorado Department of Education
is the administrative arm of the Colorado State Board of Education. This state agency can help with occupational/vocational schools, questions about school requirements, and other education related matters.
If you have tried to resolve a problem with your local school officials and not succeeded, you may wish to contact this department.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Education
If you have questions or concerns regarding higher education, the
Colorado Department of Higher Education
may be able to provide further assistance.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Higher Education
United States
The mission of
U.S. Department of Education
is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.
ED was created in 1980 by combining offices from several federal agencies. ED's 4,400 employees and $68 billion budget are dedicated to:
Establishing policies on federal financial aid for education, and distributing as well as monitoring those funds.
Collecting data on America's schools and disseminating research.
Focusing national attention on key educational issues.
Prohibiting discrimination and ensuring equal access to education
For more information, please visit:
https://www.ed.gov/
Employment and Wage Issues
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment (CDLE) assists workers who have been injured on the job, ensures fair labor practices, helps those who have lost their jobs by providing temporary wage replacement through unemployment benefits, and protects the workplace - and Colorado communities - with a variety of consumer protection and safety programs.
This includes issues relating to:
Bounced payroll checks
Compensatory time (Comp Time)
Deductions from pay and withholdings
Final pay
Methods of payment
Overtime
Pay periods, statements, and paydays
Vacation pay
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Labor and Employment
Government Services
Colorado Local Government
For information about services provided by your local government agencies or to learn more about what local agency has purview over certain activities, please visit:
https://www.colorado.gov/local-government
Colorado State Government
For information about services provided by state agencies or to learn more about what state agency has purview over certain activities, please visit:
https://www.colorado.gov/state-agencies
Federal Agencies
For information about services provided by federal agencies or to learn more about what federal agency has purview over certain activities, please visit:
https://www.usa.gov/federal-agencies/
Other State Governments
The Colorado Attorney General does not have authority over other states.  As a result, you may wish to contact the applicable state for further information.
For more information and to locate a list of state attorneys generals, please visit:
https://www.naag.org/
Health and Medical
Audiologists and Hearing Aid Providers
The Colorado
Office of Audiology Licensure
and
Office of Hearing Aid Provider Licensure
regulates individual licensed audiologists, hearing aid providers, hearing aid associates and hearing aid trainees in the state of Colorado. Office activities include licensing audiologists and hearing aid providers, investigating complaints, and enforcing disciplinary actions against those who violate the Audiologists and Hearing Aid Providers Practice Act and the Director’s Rules and Regulations.
The Office works in conjunction with the National Board for Certification Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS), the Colorado Speech Language Hearing Association (CSHA), the Colorado Academy of Audiology (CAA), and the Colorado Hearing Society.
For more information about your audiologist or to review licensing and disciplinary actions, contact the Office of Audiology and Hearing Air Provider Licensure Office.
Office of Audiology Licensure
Office of Hearing Aid Provider Licensure
Chiropractors
The
Colorado Board of Chiropractic Examiners
regulates individual chiropractors. A licensed chiropractor may hold three (3) different authorities: acupuncture, electrotherapy, and animal, in conjunction to their chiropractic license.
The Board regulates chiropractic licenses with their designated authorities. The Board meets regularly to approve license applications and enforce the chiropractic rules, regulations, and practice act that governs the profession. The Board reviews complaints about chiropractors and utilizes the Division’s Office of Investigations to investigate complaints when necessary. The Board is authorized to take disciplinary action against those who have violated the Chiropractic Practice Act, Rules, and Regulations.
To learn more about chiropractors or to check license or disciplinary status of any chiropractors, contact the Colorado Board of Chiropractic Examiners.
For more information, please visit:
Board of Chiropractic Examiners
Dentists
The
Colorado Dental Board
regulates and licenses dentists and dental hygienists.  The mission of the Board is to safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the people of Colorado by developing and maintaining rules and policies to ensure that only qualified persons are licensed to provide dental care and those violators of the laws and rules regulating dentistry are sanctioned as appropriate.
The Board activities include licensing dentists and dental hygienists, investigating complaints about the licensed and unlicensed practice of dentistry and dental hygiene, disciplining those who violate the law and/or the Board’s Rules and make, amend, and adopt reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct of dentists and dental hygienists. If you have a complaint about a dentist or dental hygienists or would like additional licensing and discipline history of your dentist, contact the Colorado Dental Board.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Dental Board
Doctors, Physicians, and other Health Care Providers
The
Colorado Medical Board (CMB)
was instituted as part of the Medical Practice Act for the purpose of regulating and controlling the practice of healing arts, which include establishing and enforcing the licensing standards for Medical Doctors (M.D.s), Doctors of Osteopathy (D.O.s), Physician Assistants (P.A.s), and Anesthesiology Assistants (A.A.s). Licensure is mandatory to practice medicine in Colorado or to treat Colorado patients.
The CMB investigates the unlicensed practice of medicine. It does not, however, have authority to arbitrate or adjudicate fee disputes.  For more information about your doctor or to review licensing and disciplinary actions, contact the Colorado Medical Board.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Medical Board
EMT's and Ambulance Services
Ground ambulances are licensed in each county where the ambulance operates. Contact your county commissioners’ office for specific county ambulance licensing requirements.
The Department of Public Health and Environment handles certification of Emergency Medical Technicians. The Department is also responsible for developing and implementing regulations for the Statewide Emergency Medical and Trauma Services System Development Plan.
For more information, please visit:
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
Hospitals
The
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE)
, through its Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division, regulates hospitals and other health facilities.
Consumers with questions or complaints regarding hospitals should contact the Department of Health.
For more information, please visit:
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division
Medical Billing
Medical billing is often complicated and difficult to understand for most people, often creating confusion and misunderstanding relating to health care costs.   While not exhaustive, here are some helpful tips to follow when possible.
Before Receiving Service
Document everything:  Create a journal relating to all of your interactions with your health care and insurance providers.  Make sure to include important information that memorializes dates, times, people, discussion points, and related documents.  This information can be extremely helpful to resolve disputes, particularly when disputes span over a long time period.
Understand Costs:  When possible and before you engage in any medical service, also work with your insurance and health care providers to get a complete understanding of all costs associated with any medical procedure.  This may involve requesting estimates, coverage amounts, and require additional discussion with your health care professionals to fully understand cost implications.
Reviewing and Understanding your Medical Bills
Compare your medical bills to the service you received to ensure the billing matches.  This includes understanding who sent you the bill, the specific details of the bill and unforeseen expenses, as well reviewing your explanation of benefits.
If you have any questions relating to your medical bills, act immediately and contact the sender of the bill for clarifications, including contacting your health care providers and your insurance company for further explanation.
Report Medical Billing Concerns
:
Colorado Division of Insurance:
303-894-7490 / 800-930-3745
DORA_Insurance@state.co.us
https://doi.colorado.gov/for-consumers/file-a-complaint
Medicare Fraud
1-800-633-4227
https://www.medicare.gov/forms-help-resources/help-fight-medicare-fraud/how-report-medicare-fraud
Seek Legal Advice
While the Attorney General is unable to provide you legal advice or conduct an assessment of your situation, legal resources are contained within this guide that may help provide you direction in getting a legal opinion related to your issue.
Optometrists and Eye Exams
The
State Board of Optometry
regulates the practice of optometry in Colorado. The board does not regulate eye clinics or opticians. Board activities include licensing optometrists, investigating complaints against optometrists and the unlicensed practice of optometry, and enforcing disciplinary actions against those who violate the Optometric Practice Act and Board Rules.
For more information, please visit:
State Board of Optometry
Housing and Real Estate
Foreclosures
If you are facing a foreclosure and are unable to reach a resolution with your lien holder(s) or need assistance, contact
Colorado Housing Connects
.  Colorado Housing Connects offers a hotline and other resources for distressed homeowners to connect to free HUD-approved housing counselors. The counselors not only assist those facing foreclosure but also assist homeowners attempting to negotiate loan modifications or refinancing from their lender.
For more information, please visit:
https://coloradohousingconnects.org/homeowners/
303-202-6340
In addition, you may also wish to contact your local housing authorities or Colorado Department of Local Affairs - Division of Housing.
For more information, please visit:
https://cdola.colorado.gov/housing
If you are at risk of homelessness or in need of immediate housing assistance,
please visit 211
.
Homeless Initiatives
The Colorado Department of Local Affairs,
Division of Housing’s Office of Homeless Initiatives
works with local, state, and federal stakeholders to build, promote, and support collaborative approaches to make homelessness rare, brief, and one-time in Colorado.
The Office of Homeless Initiatives (OHI) manages and administers rental assistance programs, creates, funds, and evaluates supportive housing and other homeless solutions, and oversees the operation of the Fort Lyon Supportive Residential Community and broader Fort Lyon campus. OHI also provides technical assistance related to the implementation of best practices to addressing homelessness, including supportive housing, rapid re-housing, housing first, and coordinated referrals and prioritization.
*The Division of Housing does not provide direct services.
If you are at risk of homelessness or in need of immediate housing assistance,
please visit 211
.
For information regarding Housing Choice Voucher program (Section-8), homeless programs, or private activity bonds: 303-864-7852.
For additional information, please visit:
https://cdola.colorado.gov/office-of-homeless-initiatives
Homeowners' Association (HOA)
While the Department of Law does not have authority over Homeowners Associations (HOA's), Colorado has established the
HOA Information & Resource Center
.   The HOA Information and Resource Center registers HOA's serves as a resource for consumers to understand their basic rights and duties under the Colorado Common Interest Ownership Act.
For more information about your rights, please visit:
https://dre.colorado.gov/hoa-center
Mobile Home Parks
The Division of Housing oversees the Mobile Home Park Act and
Mobile Home Park Dispute Resolution and Enforcement Program
Mobile home owners, mobile home park owners, and mobile home park managers can submit complaints for dispute resolution through the Division, instead of taking issues to court, which can be costly.  The Program is responsible for:
Conducting outreach and education on mobile home park laws;
Registering all mobile home parks annually;
Receiving and investigating complaints;
Facilitating dispute resolution between mobile home owners and mobile home park landlords;
Determining whether violations of the law have occurred and taking enforcement actions; and
Engaging in public rulemaking to clarify the law.
The Division invites stakeholders from local jurisdictions, mobile home owners renting space in a mobile home park, mobile home park owners/managers, and any other interested parties to join our email list, attend stakeholder meetings in person or remotely to learn more about the Program and changes to the Act, and provide input on implementation of the Program.
For more information, please visit:
https://cdola.colorado.gov/mobile-home-park-oversight
Renters
Colorado's COVID-19 Help Center
Learn more from Colorado's Help Center about the COVID 19 Pandemic and executive orders relating to housing here:
Phone: 303-389-1687
https://covid19.colorado.gov
Colorado Division of Housing
The
Colorado Division of Housing
provides information relating to evictions and foreclosure prevention.
To learn more, please visit:
https://cdola.colorado.gov/housing-covid19-eviction
Colorado Housing Connects
Colorado Housing Connects
helps provide Coloradans with access to fair-housing resources and helps renters reach critical eviction prevention services.
For more information relating to landlord/tenant concerns, contact Colorado Housing Connects at:
Phone: 844-926-6632
http://www.coloradohousingconnects.org
2-1-1
2-1-1
is a confidential and multilingual service connecting people to vital resources across the state.  No matter where you live in Colorado, you can find information about housing resources in your local community by:
Calling 211
https://www.211colorado.org/
Local Housing Authority
Many Colorado counties offer direct housing assistance to their residents.  To find your county, visit:
https://www.colorado.gov/government/local-government/counties
Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Learn more about renting and
HUD
rental assistance programs here:
https://www.hud.gov/topics/rental_assistance
Real Estate
The
Colorado Division of Real Estate
protects the consumer through the licensing, regulation and enforcement of licensed real estate professionals.  This includes licensing and regulation of real estate appraisers, brokers, and mortgage loan originators.
For more information, please visit:
https://dre.colorado.gov/
Identity Theft
Identity theft occurs when someone fraudulently uses your personal identifying information to obtain credit, take out a loan, open accounts, get identification, or any other activity in which a criminal uses your information in a fraudulent way.
If you have been a victim of Identity Theft or Fraud, the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is available to help, providing assistance through the Identity Theft Hotline.
The hotline phones are answered 24 hours a day, every day of the year, including weekends and holidays.
For more information, please call or visit:
1-855-443-3489 (toll free)
CBI Identity Theft Hotline
Moving
Moving can be an extremely stressful time.  Not only can moving be stressful, it can also an opportune time for scammers as well.  Do your homework before you move and know who you are dealing with prior to entering into any contract.
In-state movers (moves within Colorado) are regulated by the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies -
Household Goods Movers
and are required to meet certain regulatory standards prior to operating within Colorado.
Interstate movers (moves across state boundaries) are regulated and licensed by the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA)
.
For more information, please visit:
In-State Move:
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies - Household Goods Movers
Out-of-State Move:
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
Older Adult Resources
AARP ElderWatch
The AARP Foundation ElderWatch Program
is a joint project of the Colorado Attorney General’s Office and the
AARP Foundation
.
AARP ElderWatch is a statewide network connecting law enforcement agencies, adult protective services and other interested groups. Information about scams, and training and educational materials are disseminated throughout Colorado.
AARP ElderWatch also collects data on incidents of financial exploitation, providing information on the scope of this problem. This data allows training and educational materials to be targeted to specific scams or to specific seniors. This data also allows law enforcement resources to be focused on the most egregious problems.
AARP ElderWatch is designed to operate as a clearinghouse for complaints, educational information, and training materials dealing with the financial exploitation of elderly Coloradans. If you are a senior (or are helping a senior) and you believe that you may have been a victim of a fraud or a scam, you should contact AARP ElderWatch at:
AARP ElderWatch
https://www.aarp.org/money/scams-fraud/elderwatch/
Phone: 1-800-222-4444, Telephone Option #2
Phone (Metro Denver): 303-222-4444, Telephone Option #2
Adult Protective Services (APS)
Colorado operates a state-supervised system that is administered at the local county level and is designed to provide protection and safety for at-risk adults, which may include seniors. Examples of reports they process are instances of mistreatment, caretaker abuse and exploitation.
More information about APS and contact information for each APS county program, please visit:
https://www.coloradoaps.com/about-adult-protective-services.html
At Risk Adults, Patient Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation
Who are at-risk adults?
At-risk adults are persons age 18 and older who are unable to provide or obtain services necessary for their health, safety, and welfare OR who lack the capacity to make or understand responsible decisions.
To make a report of suspected mistreatment or self-neglect of an at-risk adult, contact:
Adult Protective Services
https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B9eaXW7_92zSanlUNWQtMDNlUWc/view
https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdhs/report-abuse-older-adult
Adult Protective Services (APS) investigates allegations of physical and sexual abuse, caretaker neglect, exploitation, and harmful acts (collectively referred to as "mistreatment") and self-neglect of at-risk adults. APS offers protective services to improve the health, safety, and welfare of at-risk adult experiencing mistreatment or self-neglect. APS uses community-based services and resources, health care services, family and friends when appropriate, and other support systems.
Making a report of mistreatment or self-neglect
It’s OK to report if you just suspect something is wrong. As long as you make the report in good faith, you are immune from any criminal charges or a civil lawsuit for damages. If you knowingly make a false report it is a class 3 misdemeanor and if you are charged and convicted, you could receive a fine of up to $750, six months in jail, or both.
Have as much information as possible about the at-risk adult, the alleged perpetrator, and what is concerning you.  At a minimum, Adult Protective Services will need the following information:
Name and address of the at-risk adult
A description of the alleged mistreatment and the situation
The nature and extent of any injury
Identity of the alleged perpetrator; name and address if possible
Patient abuse, neglect and exploitation
The Colorado Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (COMFCU) is tasked with protecting the system that provides health care to those most in need in Colorado.  Dedicated to the investigation and prosecution of Medicaid provider fraud and the investigation and prosecution of the abuse and neglect of the most vulnerable Coloradans the COMFCU maintains a strong commitment to ensuring that Coloradans have access to the highest quality care from dedicated providers while continuing to take an aggressive approach to reducing Medicaid fraud and patient abuse across the state.  Examples include:
Physical or sexual assaults
Unlawful use of restraints or confinement
Failure to provide medical care
Failure to ensure that a patient’s basic needs are met
Failure to monitor patient status
Misuse of patient funds
To learn more and to file a report, please visit:
https://coag.gov/file-complaint/
District Attorney
In addition to reporting to Adult Protective Services, you may also wish to file a report with your District Attorney.  For more information and to find your district attorney, please visit:
http://www.cdacweb.com/
Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
The PACE program provides medical and social services to certain frail individuals aged 55 and older. The goal is to keep them living in their homes along with the assistance of a comprehensive care coordination team.
For more information about the state and federal PACE program, please visit:
Colorado:
https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/hcpf/program-all-inclusive-care-elderly
Medicaid:
https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/long-term-services-supports/program-all-inclusive-care-elderly/index.html
State Unit on Aging
Under the Colorado Department of Human Services is the State Unit On Aging, which provides information on many topics including  aging and disability resources, the long-term care ombudsman program and legal services.
For more information, please visit:
https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdhs/state-unit-aging
Scams Impacting Older Adults
Scams Impacting Older Adults
Click here
to learn more about the Top scams impacting older adults.
https://www.stopfraudcolorado.gov/fraud-center/elder-fraud/Senior%20Fraud%20Handbook.pdf
To learn more about issues impacting older Coloradans, please visit the Colorado Attorney General's StopFraud Initiative at:
https://www.stopfraudcolorado.gov/seniors.html
Scams
For more information on scams and issues impacting Coloradans, please visit the Attorney General's Consumer Fraud Initiative, StopFraudColorado:
https://www.stopfraudcolorado.gov/index.html
StopFraudColorado.gov as been developed by the Colorado Attorney General’s Office to support our mission of protecting consumers and businesses from the unscrupulous behavior of fraudsters operating throughout our state.
This site is comprised of information reflecting a wide variety of scams reported to our office by consumers, businesses, local, state, and federal agencies, along with numerous other law enforcement officials throughout our communities.  While the site is not exhaustive, it can be utilized as an educational and reporting tool for the purposes of identifying, preventing, and reporting fraudulent activity throughout Colorado.
Unemployment Fraud and False 1099G Tax Forms
There is an ongoing scheme attempting to defraud unemployment systems nationwide, including here in Colorado.  Imposters are filing claims for unemployment benefits, using the names and personal information of people who have not filed claims. If you suspect you may have been a target of this scam, you should take steps to avoid the fraud and to protect yourself. You should consider taking the following steps:
If you received a ReliaCard debit card, do not use it and deactivate it by calling U.S. Bank at 1-855-279-1678 or by submitting a form by email to U.S. Bank at
ReliaCardFIU@usbank.com
. More information, and the form, is available online at
https://www.usbankreliacard.com/web/usbankreliacard/login
.
Submit a fraud report with the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment (CDLE) at
https://cdle.colorado.gov/fraud-prevention
.
You may receive an IRS Tax Form 1099G in 2021, but CDLE is taking steps to stop those forms from issuing to consumers like you.  If you received an incorrect IRS Tax Form 1099G, report the incorrect form at
https://cdle.colorado.gov/fraud-prevention
. If you report an incorrect IRS Tax Form 1099G and do not receive a corrected IRS Tax Form 1099G, please contact CDLE and inform the IRS at
https://www.irs.gov/identity-theft-fraud-scams/employment-related-identity-theft
.
File an identity theft report with the Federal Trade Commission and receive an identity theft recovery plan at
https://www.identitytheft.gov/Information
.
Do not respond to any calls, emails, or text messages telling you to return the money on the ReliaCard. Scammers, pretending to be CDLE, law enforcement, or someone else, might contact you and say the money was sent by mistake. Caller ID might even make it look like the call is real. Do not transfer money, send cash or checks, or put money on gift cards in response to anyone who contacts you. CDLE will never tell you to repay money that way. Anyone who tells you to do those things is a scammer. Every time.
Consider placing a fraud alert in your name with the consumer credit bureaus. It is free to place and remove the alerts. After contacting one consumer credit bureau, you don’t have to contact the others. Below is the contact information for the three largest credit bureaus
Equifax: 1-800-525-6285 or equifax.com
Experian: 1-888-397-3742 or experian.com
TransUnion: 1-800-680-7289 or transunion.com
Regularly review your credit reports from each of the three credit bureaus. If you discover any incorrect or fraudulent information on your credit report, you may dispute it with the credit bureau directly. Normally, you can receive one free copy of your credit report each year from each credit bureau. Due to increased fraud during the COVID-19 pandemic, each of the three credit bureaus is currently offering free weekly credit reports via annualcreditreport.com.
Contact your homeowner’s or renter’s insurance carrier. Many, but not all, homeowner’s and renter’s insurance policies have protections in the event of identity theft. They may help you in taking steps to protect you from harm and may cover you for losses.
Consider filing a police report. You may want to file a police report if you experience other harm outside of a fraudulent unemployment insurance claim. You may file an online or counter report with your local police department to create a record that you were the victim of fraud. Request a copy of the report for your records.
Report identity theft to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by filing an Identity Theft Affidavit (IRS Form 14039) at irs.gov or identitytheft.gov.
Keep your records. Maintain a central file of any records relating to this identity theft, in case you are notified of other fraud or breaches of your personal information.
More information is available at:
CDLE
https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/cdle/fraud-prevention-employers
;
U.S. Bank
https://www.usbankreliacard.com/web/usbankreliacard/login
;
FBI
https://www.fbi.gov/news/pressrel/press-releases/fbi-sees-spike-in-fraudulent-unemployment-insurance-claims-filed-using-stolen-identities; and
Colorado Attorney General Identity Theft Guide
https://coag.gov/app/uploads/2021/02/Identity-Theft-Repair-Kit-Jan-2021.pdf
Colorado Attorney General Video
How to Protect Yourself from Data Breaches and Identity Theft, including unemployment fraud (video)
If you are also an employer, you can find information at:
https://cdle.colorado.gov/frequently-asked-questions
Vacation, Travel, and Timeshares
Airlines
The U.S. Department of Transportation's Office if Aviation generally has oversight over airline activity throughout the United States.   The Office reviews and responds to consumer complaints and promotes awareness and understanding of consumer rights through online consumer information and education. If you would like information on DOT rules, guidance, and enforcement orders related to aviation consumer and civil rights matters, please visit the left navigation bar.
For more information, please visit:
https://www.transportation.gov/airconsumer
Timeshares
While legitimate timeshare purchasing and reselling organizations are lawfully conducting business throughout the state, every year fraudulent timeshare businesses pop-up in an effort to steal your money.
These schemes often start with a phone call or email from someone who claims to have a buyer for your timeshare with a deal to good to turn down.   The scammers direct you to what appears to be legitimate websites, providing you with bogus mailing addresses and official looking documents.  The only ask is that you must wire transfer money in advance to pay for fees, taxes, and other associated costs with the promise of a check at the end.
Click here
to learn more about timeshare scams and how to protect yourself from becoming a victim.
If you have been a victim of a timeshare scam and incurred financial losses, file a report with the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and, if a Colorado resident, the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI).
Federal Bureau of Investigations
Colorado Bureau of Investigation
Consulte esta página en español
Consulte esta página en español
Haga clic o pulse en el siguiente enlace para ver esta página en español:
Presente una denuncia
Office of the Attorney General
Colorado Department of Law
Ralph L. Carr Judicial Building
1300 Broadway, 10th Floor
Denver,             CO             80203
(720) 508-6000
Contact the Office of the Attorney General
Contact
ACCESSIBILITY STATEMENT
Facebook
Twitter
Skip to content
Open toolbar
Accessibility Tools
Accessibility Tools
Increase Text
Increase Text
Decrease Text
Decrease Text
Grayscale
Grayscale
High Contrast
High Contrast
Negative Contrast
Negative Contrast
Light Background
Light Background
Links Underline
Links Underline
Readable Font
Readable Font
Reset
Reset
ZETKxFBbhlfqSnLQTkZFTJBE9yNkW3r3eQgk2VqDQHc=.html