Colorado Parks & Wildlife - 
	​Off-Highway Vehicle Registrations & Permits
Skip to Content
Sign In
Donate
Calendar
Contact Us
It looks like your browser does not have JavaScript enabled. Please turn on JavaScript and try again.
COLORADO PARKS & WILDLIFE
Things To Do
Boating
Boat Inspection
Boat Registration
Boating Safety
Where to Go Boating
Camping
Camping Reservations
Learn to Camp
Camp in Cabins
Camp in Yurts
Family and Kids
Activities Backpacks
Resources for Kids
Wildlife Discovery
Fishing
Fishing Licenses
Learn to Fish
Where to Fish
Awards & Records
Fishing Report
Season Dates
Statewide Conditions
Stocking Report
Hunting
Hunting Licenses
Where to Hunt
5-Year Season Structure
Big Game
Furbearers
Mountain Lion
Small Game
Turkey
Waterfowl
Motorized Recreation
Off-Highway Vehicles
OHV Safety
OHV Trails
Snowmobiles
Register a Snowmobile
Register an OHV
Registration Locations
Outdoor Recreation
All Outdoor Activities
Biking
Geocaching
Hiking
Horseback Riding
Shooting Sports
Skiing & Snowshoeing
Trails
Volunteer
Watch Wildlife
Birding
Events & Festivals
Wildlife Sighting Forms
Learn
Conservation
Birds
Fish and Aquatics
Grassland Species
Mammals
Recovery & Conservation Plans
Sagebrush & Sage Species Conservation Strategy
Threatened & Endangered Species
Wildlife Migration & Movement
Education
Archery in Schools
SOLE
Teacher Resources
Wild Classroom
Get Outdoors
Colorado Outdoors
Learn to Camp
Learn to Fish
Learn to Hunt
Library Backpacks
Survival Skills
Trails
Hunter Education
Hunter Ed - Online
Hunter Ed - Traditional
Hunter Outreach
Mountain Lion Exam
Learn about Wildlife
Living with Wildlife
Species Profiles
Research
Aquatic
Avian
Habitat
Mammal
Wildlife Health
Places to go
CPW Locations
CPW Office Locations
Fish Hatcheries
Sales Agents
Maps
Boatable Waters
Fishing Atlas
Hunting Atlas
Maps Library
Parks
Buy Park Passes
State Park Finder
CPW Passport
Host an event in a Park
Keep Colorado Wild Pass
Request a Parks Guide
Shooting Ranges
Cameo Complex
Ranges by Region
Shooting on Public Land
Trails
CO Birding Trail
Colorado Trail System
Wildlife Areas
State Trust Lands
Wildlife Area Finder
About us
About
Accessibility
Annual Reports
Executive Management Team
Military Benefits
What We Do
Wildlife Council
News and Media
Open Records Requests
Careers
Contact Us
Commission
Meetings
Members
Get Involved
Apply for a Grant
Donate
Park Resource Stewardship
Partners
River Watch
Sponsorship
Sportsperson's roundtable
Subscribe to Colorado Outdoors Magazine
Volunteer
Policy And Planning
SCORP
State Wildlife Action Plan
Strategic Planning
Programs
​​​Backcountry Search and Rescue
Colorado Natural Areas
Habitat Partnership Program
Invasive Species
Land & Water Management
Private Land Programs
River Outfitters
Trails
Rules and Regulations
Law Enforcement
Registrations & Permits
Regulations
Regulations Brochures
Special Wildlife Licenses
Wildlife Rehabilitation
Buy & Apply
Colorado Parks & Wildlife
Buy & Apply
​Off-Highway Vehicle Registrations & Permits
​Off-Highway Vehicle Registrations & Permits
CON-Wolf-Depredation
All Site Content
Registrations
​Off-Highway Vehicle Registrations & Permits
Snowmobile Registration
​Off-Highway Vehicle Registrations & Permits
Page Image
Page Content
​
​Off-Highway Vehicles (OHVs) include:
Dirt bikes, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), utility-terrain vehicles (UTV)/side by sides (SxS), three wheelers and buggies, and;
Plated, street-legal vehicles, full-size 4 x 4s or plated motorcycles when operating on public lands and/or OHV designated trails in Colorado.
What is Required to Operate an OHV in Colorado?
All OHVs must have either a current/valid Colorado Registration Card and two Decals or one Colorado OHV Permit to operate in Colorado. This includes while in route, in staging areas and on public land roads and OHV designated trails.
How Long is an OHV Registration or Permit Valid?
Regardless of when they are purchased, both OHV Registrations and Permits are valid from April 1 through March 31 each year and are required annually. Both registrations and permits are nonrefundable and nontransferable.
Existing registrations can renew 45 days in advance of the March 31 expiration date. You’ll need your customer identification number (CID) and vehicle registration number to complete your
renewal
.
Colorado OHV Registration Card & Decals (Only Resident Vehicles)
Resident OHVs
must have both a valid OHV Registration card available with the vehicle, and two current OHV Registration decals properly displayed on and affixed to the vehicle. Fees include the search and rescue fee.
Purchase NEW or Transfer an Existing OHV Registration
Fee: $25.25
Fill out the
registration form
and provide
Acceptable Proof of Ownership
in person
at any
CPW location
,
Registration and Permit Vendors
, or mail the documents to:
CPW Registration Unit
13787 US Hwy 85 N
Littleton, CO 80125
Your registration card and official decals will arrive by mail in approximately 10-20 business days.
Effective July 1, 2014, Title is required for all power sports​ vehicle dealers and auctioneer sales. OHV titling is optional for private party to private party sales. For titling information, view
Titling Off Road Vehicles SB13-280 on the Department of Revenue website
​.
Renew an Existing OHV Registration
Fee: $25.25
Existing regi
strations can be renewed 45 days in advance of expiring
.
Vehicle owners can renew
online
, by phone (800) 244-5613, or in person at most
CPW Locations
. Call ahead when visiting a location to make sure they offer the service(s) you need. You’ll need your customer identification number (CID) and your vehicle registration number. Your registration card and official decals will arrive by mail in approximately 10-20 business days.
If you want to ride within the next 30 days, you’ll want to print your registration confirmation receipt. Your registration confirmation receipt will be emailed to your email address on file shortly after your purchase. You are required to carry your registration confirmation receipt on you while in the field, until you receive your registration card and decals.
If you do not receive your registration card and decals within 30 business days after a new registration submission or registration renewal, you should contact the CPW call center Mon. - Fri. between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. MT (303) 297-1192 or visit a
CPW location
for help researching your issue.
Duplicate/Replacement Registration
Fee: $5.00
If your registration card or decals have been lost, stolen or destroyed, you will have to purchase a duplicate registration. Duplicate registrations can be purchased
online
, over the phone at (800) 244-5613 or in person at a
CPW location
. If purchased in person at a CPW location, you will not receive your registration card and decals immediately. CPW staff will provide you with a new temporary registration and your registration card and decals will be mailed to your address on file.
Where To Place the Decals on the Vehicle
All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV)
For displaying decals on four wheel ATVs, place decals in an observable location on each side of the front fenders.
Example of four wheel ATV
Utility-Terrain Vehicle (UTV)/Side by Sides (SxS) & Off Road Buggy
For displaying decals on utility-terrain vehicles (UTV)/side by sides (SxS) and off road buggies/rock crawlers, position one decal on each of the outside faces of the roll bars in an observable location.
Example of UTV/side by side (SxS) and off road buggy
Three Wheeler & Dirt Bike
For displaying decals on dirt bikes (off road motorcycles) and on three wheel ATVs, position one decal on each of the outside faces of the upper end of the forks.
Example of a three wheeler and dirt bike
Colorado OHV Permits (sticker or non-stick bright green paper) (Nonresidents or Plated, Street-Legal Vehicles):
All
Non-Resident OHVs
must have one valid OHV Permit properly displayed on and affixed to the vehicle or carry the valid bright green OHV Permit.
A Colorado OHV Permit is required for all plated, street legal vehicles (resident and nonresident) when traveling on any designated OHV trail and/or open area for recreational use on public lands. The OHV Permit sticker must be properly displayed on the vehicle or the owner must carry the non-stick bright green OHV Permit. This includes vehicles with Colorado license plates and/or other states.
Permits are valid April 1 - March 31.
Fees include the search and rescue fee.
Colorado OHV Permit (non-stick bright green paper) (Nonresidents or Plated, Street-Legal vehicles)
Fee: $25.25
Purchase
online
or by phone (800) 244-5613 and the bright green non-stick permit will arrive by mail in approximately 10-20 business days.  Make sure you print or download your confirmation receipt. Your permit confirmation receipt will be sent to your email address on file shortly after your purchase. It includes the Temporary Authorization Number (TAN), valid for 45 days, and is the authorization to ride while you wait for your OHV permit to arrive in the mail. Carry it with you.
Purchase in person at
CPW Locations
or
sales agents
and the permit will be given to you. Call ahead for hours of operation, especially if planning to ride on a weekend or holiday.
Colorado OHV Permit (sticker)
Fee: $25.25
Purchase at
CPW Locations
that carry the sticker or various
Registration and Permit Vendors
around the state and receive the OHV Permit sticker immediately. Call ahead for sticker Permit availability and hours of operation, especially if planning to ride on a weekend or holiday. OHV permit (sticker) must be affixed to your vehicle.
Replacement OHV Permit
Fee: $25.25
If your permit has been lost, stolen or destroyed, you will have to purchase a new permit. A new OHV permit (non-stick) can be purchased
online
or by phone at (800) 244-5613 or in person at any
CPW Location
or
sales agents
. A new OHV permit (sticker) can be purchased at CPW locations or at various OHV permit vendors. Call ahead when visiting a location to make sure they offer the service(s) you need.
Where To Place the Permit on the Vehicle
All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV)
To display a permit on a four wheel ATV, place the decal in an observable location on the front fender.
Example of a four wheel ATV
Utility-Terrain Vehicle (UTV)/Side by Sides (SxS) & Off Road Buggy
To display a permit on a utility-terrain-vehicles (UTV)/side by side (SxS) and off road buggy/rock crawler, position the decal on the outside face of the driver's side roll bar, in an observable location.
Example of Utility-Terrain Vehicle (UTV)/Side by Side (SxS) and Off Road Buggy
Three Wheeler & Dirt Bike
To display a permit on a dirt bike (off road motorcycles) and on a three wheel ATV, position the permit on the outside face of the upper end of the forks.
Example of a three wheeler and dirt bike
Plated, Street-Legal Vehicle
Display the permit to the right of the front license plate.
Example of a plated, street-legal vehicle
Purchasing an OHV
Dealers are required by law to complete the registration application for you and collect the registration fee before the vehicle leaves their premises. The dealer will forward the application to our office where we will process the request.
If purchasing an OHV from a private party, have the seller provide you with a Bill of Sale to serve as your proof of ownership. An acceptable Bill of Sale includes:
both the seller and buyer’s printed names and signatures,
the vehicle identification number,
the vehicle make, model and year (if known) and
the date of the sale.
An acceptable private party to private party Bill of Sale template can be downloaded here for your use. When you purchase an OHV from a private party, you may use your Bill of Sale as a temporary registration for 30 days. The Bill of Sale must be carried on the OHV while riding until the registration decals and card get to you in the mail. Sorry, at this time, on-line registration for a newly purchased OHV is not available.
Help Us Keep Your Record(s) Accurate
Be sure to double check your online account and update your contact information, mailing address, email address and phone number whenever you purchase products from CPW so you will receive our renewal reminders. CPW cannot be responsible for customer data entry errors made during online purchases, and record corrections are charged the applicable replacement fee.
Know Before You Go
Contact each public land management agency for their current motor vehicle-use rules, regulations, closures and agency maps. The
Stay The Trail
website and the free
Colorado Trail Explorer (COTREX) trails app
are additional resources for finding places to ride in Colorado.
Where the Money Goes
The Colorado OHV Registration Program fees fund trail maintenance, construction, trailheads, parking areas, trail signs, maps, and land acquisition. It also enables law enforcement personnel to identify and return stolen vehicles, encourages safe and responsible OHV use, and promotes respect for public lands.
Since the program started in 1991, $73 million from OHV registration fees has been allocated for “on the ground” improvements for motorized recreation.
Many groups benefit from OHV registration, including:
OHV owners and operators;
Local, state and federal land managers who can use the funds to better manage natural resources;
Towns and counties that want to attract OHV riders to enhance their local economies; and ​
The general public; educated OHV enthusiasts are more conscientious and better stewards of the land.
Read more about the
OHV grants program
​​. ​
Accessibility
Contact Us
Donate
Jobs
GOCO
Lottery
TOPS
Privacy Policy
Colorado Parks and Wildlife is licensed under
CC BY-NC-ND 4.0
Please join us in our first ever Day of Giving by making a donation today
. Your contribution can go a long way to help protect our wildlife and natural spaces, support our state parks and outdoor recreational opportunities, and introduce people to the wonders of Colorado's great outdoors.
Donate
Thanks for your continued support!