Colorado Parks & Wildlife - 
	Snowmobile Registration
Skip to Content
Sign In
Donate
Calendar
Contact Us
It looks like your browser does not have JavaScript enabled. Please turn on JavaScript and try again.
COLORADO PARKS & WILDLIFE
Things To Do
Boating
Boat Inspection
Boat Registration
Boating Safety
Where to Go Boating
Camping
Camping Reservations
Learn to Camp
Camp in Cabins
Camp in Yurts
Family and Kids
Activities Backpacks
Resources for Kids
Wildlife Discovery
Fishing
Fishing Licenses
Learn to Fish
Where to Fish
Awards & Records
Fishing Report
Season Dates
Statewide Conditions
Stocking Report
Hunting
Hunting Licenses
Where to Hunt
5-Year Season Structure
Big Game
Furbearers
Mountain Lion
Small Game
Turkey
Waterfowl
Motorized Recreation
Off-Highway Vehicles
OHV Safety
OHV Trails
Snowmobiles
Register a Snowmobile
Register an OHV
Registration Locations
Outdoor Recreation
All Outdoor Activities
Biking
Geocaching
Hiking
Horseback Riding
Shooting Sports
Skiing & Snowshoeing
Trails
Volunteer
Watch Wildlife
Birding
Events & Festivals
Wildlife Sighting Forms
Learn
Conservation
Birds
Fish and Aquatics
Grassland Species
Mammals
Recovery & Conservation Plans
Sagebrush & Sage Species Conservation Strategy
Threatened & Endangered Species
Wildlife Migration & Movement
Education
Archery in Schools
SOLE
Teacher Resources
Wild Classroom
Get Outdoors
Colorado Outdoors
Learn to Camp
Learn to Fish
Learn to Hunt
Library Backpacks
Survival Skills
Trails
Hunter Education
Hunter Ed - Online
Hunter Ed - Traditional
Hunter Outreach
Mountain Lion Exam
Learn about Wildlife
Living with Wildlife
Species Profiles
Research
Aquatic
Avian
Habitat
Mammal
Wildlife Health
Places to go
CPW Locations
CPW Office Locations
Fish Hatcheries
Sales Agents
Maps
Boatable Waters
Fishing Atlas
Hunting Atlas
Maps Library
Parks
Buy Park Passes
State Park Finder
CPW Passport
Host an event in a Park
Keep Colorado Wild Pass
Request a Parks Guide
Shooting Ranges
Cameo Complex
Ranges by Region
Shooting on Public Land
Trails
CO Birding Trail
Colorado Trail System
Wildlife Areas
State Trust Lands
Wildlife Area Finder
About us
About
Accessibility
Annual Reports
Executive Management Team
Military Benefits
What We Do
Wildlife Council
News and Media
Open Records Requests
Careers
Contact Us
Commission
Meetings
Members
Get Involved
Apply for a Grant
Donate
Park Resource Stewardship
Partners
River Watch
Sponsorship
Sportsperson's roundtable
Subscribe to Colorado Outdoors Magazine
Volunteer
Policy And Planning
SCORP
State Wildlife Action Plan
Strategic Planning
Programs
​​​Backcountry Search and Rescue
Colorado Natural Areas
Habitat Partnership Program
Invasive Species
Land & Water Management
Private Land Programs
River Outfitters
Trails
Rules and Regulations
Law Enforcement
Registrations & Permits
Regulations
Regulations Brochures
Special Wildlife Licenses
Wildlife Rehabilitation
Buy & Apply
Colorado Parks & Wildlife
Buy & Apply
Snowmobile Registration
Snowmobile Registration
CON-Wolf-Depredation
All Site Content
Registrations
​Off-Highway Vehicle Registrations & Permits
Snowmobile Registration
Snowmobile Registration
Page Image
Page Content
​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Snowmobiles that are operated on public land or trails in Colorado must be registered with Colorado Parks and Wildlife.​​​​
​​​​​​​​​Registration, registration renewals and nonresident snowmobile permits are required annually and are 
         valid from October 1 through September 30 each year.
Registration renewal cards are mailed to currently registered owners each August.
Registrations and registration renewals can be done 45 days prior to the registration expiration date (Sept. 30).
Who must register:
Colorado residents are required to regist​er their snowmobiles with Colorado Parks and Wildlife and must provide
acce​pt​​able proof of ownership
.
Non-residents are not required to register their snowmobiles (but may choose to do so). If a non-resident chooses to register their snowmobile they are required to provide
acce​pt​​able proof of ownership
.
Who must purchase a permit:
Non-residents are required
to 
            purchase a permit re
gardless of whether or not they choose to register.
​
​​
How to Register
To register your Snowmobile in your name for the first time, complete the
Snowmobile Registration Form
and return it,
along with your
proof of ownership
,​ to:
Colorado Parks and Wildlife - Registration Unit
13787 South Highway 85
Littleton, CO 80125
You may also register your snowmobile at various dealers or many Colorado Parks and Wildlife offices.
​Please call the Registration Unit at 303-297-1192 for a list of agent locations near you.
Title is required for all power sports vehicle dealers and auctioneer sales. Snowmobile titling is optional for private party to private party sales.​ For titling information, see
Titling Off Road Vehicles SB13-280 on the Department of Revenue website​
. ​
Registration Fees
The annual registration fee is $30.25. Registrations are valid Oct. 1 through Sept. 30 each year. This is a flat administrative transaction fee – it cannot be prorated for a partial year's registration, and will not be subject to refund if the machine is sold or stolen.
Registration Renewals
Renew Your Registration Online
Online registration renewal for vehicles and vessels is now available to people who already have their vehicle registrations added to their CPWShop.com accounts.
Verify you can renew your registration online and find online registration renewal instructions on the main
Registrations
page.
​
​
Registration renewal cards are mailed to currently registered owners each August. Registrations are valid October 1 through September 30 each year. You may also
renew your registration online
by going to the link on the back of the registration card. You MUST have your registration number to renew online or please call 303-297-1192 to get your information.​​​
Purchasing a Snowmobile
Dealers are required by law to complete the registration application for you and collect the registration fee before the machine leaves their premises. The dealer will forward the application form to our office, where we will process the request.
If purchasing a snowmobile from a private party, have the seller provide you with a Bill of Sale to serve as your proof of ownership. An acceptable bill of sale includes:
both the seller and buyer’s printed names and signatures,
the vehicle identification number,
the vehicle make, model and year (if known) and
the date of the sale.
An acceptable private party to private party
Bill of Sale template
​ can be downloaded here for your use. When you purchase a snowmobile from a private party, you may use your Bill of Sale as a temporary registration for 30 days. The Bill of Sale must be carried on the snowmobile while riding until the registration decals and card get to you in the mail.
Sorry, at this time, on-line registration for a newly purchased snowmobile is not available.
Out-of-state Snowmobiles
Out-of-state residents who bring snowmobiles into Colorado must purchase a Colorado Non-Resident Snowmobile permit which is valid October 1 through September 30 each year. ​These permits can be purchased online from October 1 through April 15.
Please allow 14 days for your order to arrive in the mail.
Once purchased, this sticker should be placed on the machine's outside face of the right front part of the cowling. Since this is only a use permit, no renewal notice will be sent to non-resident permit holders. You must purchase a new permit each year you come to Colorado with your Snowmobile.
Decal Placement
Registration decals must be affixed permanently on each side of the upper half of the cowlin​g in a location where the decal can be easily seen. Snowmobile operators must carry their registration card and show it to any peace officer on request.
Where the Money Goes
Benefits of the Snowmobile Registration Program
Colorado State Snowmobile Program registration fees fund trail grooming, trail maintenance and construction, trailheads, parking areas, trail signs and maps. It also enables law enforcement personnel to identify and return stolen vehicles, encourages safe and responsible snowmobile use, and promotes respect for public lands.
Many different groups benefit from snowmobile registration, including:
Snowmobile owners and operators;
Towns and counties that want to attract snowmobile users to enhance their local economies; and
The general public; educated snowmobile enthusiasts are more conscientious and better stewards of the land.
Registration funds also enable local, state and federal land managers to better manage our natural resources. Annually, more than $700,000 is granted for on-the-ground trail improvements and grooming. Read more about the
snowmobile grants program
.
Accessibility
Contact Us
Donate
Jobs
GOCO
Lottery
TOPS
Privacy Policy
Colorado Parks and Wildlife is licensed under
CC BY-NC-ND 4.0
Please join us in our first ever Day of Giving by making a donation today
. Your contribution can go a long way to help protect our wildlife and natural spaces, support our state parks and outdoor recreational opportunities, and introduce people to the wonders of Colorado's great outdoors.
Donate
Thanks for your continued support!