Colorado No Call - Home
Home
Sign Up
Complaints
Telemarketers
No Call Law
No Call Rules
FAQ
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Welcome to the Colorado No-Call List
Coloradans are encouraged to Register on Two No Call Lists
No-Call Sign Up
Phone or Fax Number
(
)
                -
-
Zip Code
E-mail (optional)
In 2001, the Colorado General Assembly passed legislation that allows consumers to protect 
    themselves from many unwanted telemarketing calls. As of June 1, 2003, consumers 
    may add their wireless telephone numbers to the Colorado No Call List as well. If you do 
    not want to receive telemarketing calls or faxes, you may add your number to the form on 
    the right. To submit a complaint, use the form on the
Complaints
page.
Coloradans must now register on two do not call lists. To be sure that you are included on a no call list and so telemarketers do not call, Coloradans are encouraged to register on both this website and the National Do Not Call Registry.
    Recently, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) stopped accepting no call information from the states. Registration may be done on the Internet, at the National Do Not Call Registry website
http://www.ftc.gov/donotcall
, or by calling 1-888-382-1222 (TTY 1-866-290-4236). More information is available on the website.  The Public Utilties Commission recommends that subscribers register on both sites.
This site enables consumers to add or remove their residential, wireless,
    or fax telephone numbers to the Colorado No-Call List. By
adding
your 
    residential, wireless, or fax telephone number(s), telemarketers
will not
call you. To add: enter your residential, wireless, or fax
    telephone number(s), zip code and e-mail (optional) into the box on this page.
If you have added your residential, wireless, or fax telephone 
    number(s) to the Colorado No-Call List and for some reason you would like to remove your 
    number(s), you may do so at this site. By
removing
your residential,
    wireless, or fax telephone number(s) telemarketers
will
be able to call you. To 
    remove: enter your residential, wireless, or fax telephone number(s), zip code and 
    e-mail (optional) into the box on this page.
It is a violation of the law to add or remove someone's residential, wireless, or fax telephone number(s)
    without his or her authorization.
Some telephone solicitation calls are permissible under Colorado's No-Call Law. 
    Click
here
to find out about such calls.
This site is divided into the following subject areas:
I want to add or remove my residential, wireless, or fax telephone number(s) to the No-Call List.
I want to file a complaint.
I am a telemarketer and I want to find out about using the No-Call List.
I want to know the telemarketers that have registered.
I want to read the law that created the No-Call List.
I want to read the rules that govern the No-Call List.
I have questions about the No-Call List.
A private company, Longmont-based Data Protection Group,
    operates this site under contract with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.
    If you have comments about this site, the toll free number or the vendor, you can contact 
    the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission
at 303-894-2070 or toll free at 1-800-456-0858, outside of the Denver metro area.
To use the Colorado No Call program via our automated system,
            call 303-776-2678 or 800-309-7041
Hosted by Data Protection Group
, ® Copyright, 2016
W3