Pesticides | Department of Agriculture
Skip to main content
Find updates about the HWY 50 Bridge Closure on the
Gunnison County website
.
Search
Search
Menu
Home
Toggle submenu
About Us
CDA at a Glance - July 2024
Commissioner's Office
Toggle submenu
Ag Commission
Boards & Commissions
CDA Priorities
Legislation, Laws, Regulations and Rule Hearings
I'm a Consumer
I'm a Producer
Press Releases
Blog
Events
Toggle submenu
CDA Film Tour 2024: Legacy
Calendar
Rural Mental Health
Best In Show Photo Contest
Contact Us
Animal Health
Toggle submenu
Agriculture Emergency Programs
Import Requirements
Alternative Livestock (Captive Cervids)
Aquaculture
Colorado Wild Horse Management Support
Livestock-Wildlife Interface Resources
Reportable Diseases
Toggle submenu
Avian Influenza
Toggle submenu
Colorado HPAI Response
Equine West Nile Virus
Traceability
Contact Us - Animal Health
Animal Welfare
Toggle submenu
Pet Animal Care Facilities Act (PACFA)
Bureau of Animal Protection
Brands
Toggle submenu
About Brands
Alternative Livestock
BrandAbetical Search
Livestock Brands
Livestock Inspection
Missing/Stolen Livestock
Open Range and Fencing
Contact Us - Brands
Conservation
Toggle submenu
Ag. Water Quality
Agricultural Drought and Climate Resilience Office (ADCRO)
Biocontrol at Palisade Insectary
Chemigation
Conservation Board
ACRE3 Energy Grants
Energy Programs
Noxious Weeds
Toggle submenu
Grant FAQs
Perennial Sweet Pea
Tall Oat Grass
Yellow mignonette
Boot Brush Kiosks
Soil Health Program
Weed Free Forage
Contact Us - Conservation
ICS
Toggle submenu
Agricultural Worker Services Program
Blockchain for Agriculture
Colorado Agricultural Mediation Program (CAMP)
Colorado Produce Safety Program
Toggle submenu
Colorado Wine Grape Grower Information
Commodity Handler Program
Eggs
Toggle submenu
Cage free eggs
Farm Products
Feed
Fertilizer
Fruit & Vegetable Section
Measurement Standards
Meat - Custom Processing
Contact Us - ICS
Fee Schedule
Labs
Toggle submenu
Animal Health Laboratory
Biochemistry Laboratory
Metrology Laboratory
Laboratory Outreach Program
Contact Us - Labs
Markets
Toggle submenu
Colorado Proud
Markets Funding
Toggle submenu
Agricultural Workforce Development Program
Colorado Agricultural Future Loan Program
Community Food Access Program
NextGen Ag Leadership Grant Program
Resilient Food Systems Infrastructure (RFSI) Program
Specialty Crop Block Grant Program
Ag Industries
Export Assistance
Farm/Ranch Programs
Marketing/Promotions
Toggle submenu
Forms - Publications
Public Attitudes Survey 2022
Market Orders
Contact Us - Markets
Plants
Toggle submenu
Plant Health
Hemp
Toggle submenu
APPLY ONLINE - Hemp Online Portal
Nursery
Organic
Pest Survey
Toggle submenu
Japanese Beetle in Colorado
Spotted Lanternfly
Pesticides
Toggle submenu
Pesticide Applicator Licensing Online Portal
Applicator Search
Plant Exports
Plant Imports
Seed Potato
Seed
Contact Us - Plants
State Fair
1
Home
Plants
Pesticides
Pesticides
The Colorado Department of Agriculture's Pesticides Program regulates the distribution and use of pesticides in the state to prevent adverse impacts to the public and the environment.
Update:
We now have an online applicator search for looking up Licensed Commercial Applicators, Registered Limited Commercial Applicators, Registered Public Applicators and Licensed Qualified Supervisors, Certified Operators and Private Applicators. Please use the link below to access the search.
**New** Pesticide Applicator Search
The Department is in the process of updating our applicator records to capture business and individual applicator e-mail contact information.  This information will be used for future electronic communications to keep licensed applicators up-to-date with Departmental news, rule changes, new procedural implementations, licensure notifications/correspondence and needs for the licensed community.
Add/Update your Email Address and Contact Info for your Applicator Business and Individual License Here
The Pesticide Applicator Certification and Training Program has moved all of our forms to a digital platform. All Licensing and Registration applications and forms should be submitted through our Pesticide Applicator Online Portal:
#FFFFFF
​ Pesticide Applicator Licensing Online Portal  ​
#FFFFFF
myColorado Opt-in
Your Qualifed Supervisor, Certified Operator and Private Applicator Licenses are now available digitally through the myColorado App.
When you apply for a new license or renew your existing license there will be options for your digital license or you can Opt-in at anytime using the "myColorado Opt-In" link above.
#FFFFFF
The Pesticides Program has the following main areas of focus:
Use of Pesticides
#FFFFFF
Pesticide Applicator Certification and Licensing Program
Pesticide Use in Cannabis Production
Non Registered Applicator Training Modules
#FFFFFF
Pesticide Enforcement
This program investigates alleged misuse of
pesticides and takes appropriate enforcement actions based on evidence that reflects that violations have occurred.
Pesticide Enforcement Actions
ACCESS TO FINALIZED ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS PURSUANT TO C.R.S.  § 35-10-124: Effective July 1, 2015, the Department must post specific information concerning enforcement actions taken against users of pesticides.  This table contains the name of the person or entity found to be in violation of the act, the city or county where the violation occurred, the nearest major intersection to where the violation occurred, the resulting enforcement action issued by the Department and the date the Department issued that action.
SFY 2016
SFY 2017
SFY 2018
SFY 2019
SFY 2020
SFY 2021
SFY 2022
SFY 2023
SFY 2024
If an entry appears to be missing a case number, then that entry reflects an enforcement action that came about as a result of some form of inspection, or sufficient information was immediately available and therefore an investigation was not warranted.
Under C.R.S., §§35-10-120 through 123, the Department may impose the following Civil Enforcement Actions:
CDO- Cease and Desist Order
LOA- Letter of Admonition
STIP- Stipulated Agreement
CIV- Civil Penalty
FAO- Final Agency Order
File a Complaint
To file a complaint of pesticide misuse, please use the link below.
Pesticides Complaint Form
Pesticides In Or Near Waterways - NPDES Info
CDPHE NPDES/PGP Home Page
EPA NPDES Pesticide Home Page
EPA's Pesticide Permit Decision Tool
New Bed Bug Reporting Requirements for Commercial Pesticide Applicators
During the 2019 legislative session, the Colorado General Assembly introduced House Bill 19-1328, which amended Title 38, Article 12, Tenants and Landlords, concerning bed bugs in residential premises and it established a requirement for commercial pesticide applicators, Qualified Supervisors or Certified Applicators to notify landlords and tenants of bed bug activity and provide remediation instructions.   HB 19-1328 goes into effect on January 1, 2020.
Notification provisions created in HB 19-1328, affecting commercial pesticide applicators, expressly state that notification and reporting will be in accordance with Rules established by the commissioner pursuant to Title 35, Article 10.  Therefore the CDA Pesticides Program is in the process of amending its Rules to add a new Part 10.08(a) and (b) to establish what bed bug activity must be reported to the landlord and what remediation recommendations must be provided to the tenant.
The proposed Rules will be published in the Colorado Registry on September 25, 2019.  Once finalized, the new Rules will go into effect on December 30, 2019.  Compliance with the new reporting provision is not required until January 1, 2020.
To read
HB 19-1328
in its entirety.
If you have any questions regarding this proposed Rule, please contact John Scott, Pesticides Program Section Chief at 303-869-9056.
Dicamba Training Information
In 2017, due to damage caused by dicamba drift and/or volatilization reported throughout the Southeastern and Midwestern U.S., it was determined that additional application and training restrictions needed to be in place for post-emergent dicamba use in 2018.
On October 13th, 2017, EPA issued a
press release
announcing that the agency had come to an agreement with Monsanto, Dupont and BASF to allow the continued use of certain dicamba herbicides for post-emergent weed control in genetically engineered, dicamba-resistant soybeans and cotton.
EPA worked with dicamba registrants to craft label changes that will be in force in 2018 for post-emergent uses of Dicamba. Registrants have voluntarily agreed to label changes that impose additional requirements for "over the top" (applications to growing plants) use of these products including:
Classifying products as "restricted use," permitting only licensed applicators with category-specific training, and those under their supervision, to apply them;
Additional dicamba-specific training for all applicators to reinforce proper use;
Requiring applicators to maintain specific records regarding the use of these products to improve compliance with label restrictions;
Limiting applications to when maximum wind speeds are below 10 mph (from 15 mph) to reduce potential spray drift;
Reducing the times during the day when applications can occur;
Including tank clean-out language to prevent cross-contamination;
Enhancing susceptible crop language and record keeping with sensitive crop registries to increase awareness of risk to especially sensitive crops nearby; and
A record of the dicamba specific training must be maintained in the applicator’s records.
On March 15, 2022, the US EPA approved amended labeling for XtendiMax® With VaporGrip® Technology (EPA Reg. No. 264-1210), Engenia® Herbicide (7969-472), and Tavium® Plus VaporGrip® Technology (100-1623).
As part of the new amended labeling, all applicators must check the applicable over-the-top dicamba product-specific website no more than 7 days before application of the product for additional labeling, including state restrictions. Where applicable, applicators must comply with additional requirements found on the applicable product-specific website. Links to both state-specific and collateral labeling can be accessed directly from that website.
Users must follow the label including the requirement to complete dicamba or auxin-specific training prior to making applications for the 2022 season and each growing season thereafter.
BASF Stewardship: Product -Engenia
Engenia Herbicide Stewardship Portal
Engenia Online Training Module
EPA OPP Dicamba Training Requirements
Frequently asked questions about required dicamba training
Bayer Stewardship: Product-XtendiMax
State-specific and collateral labels for XtendiMax® Herbicide with VaporGrip® Technology can be accessed at:
Application Requirements | XtendiMax® Herbicide with VaporGrip® Technology (
xtendimaxapplicationrequiremen
ts.com)
We encourage any individual seeking information on dicamba training to visit:
Dicamba Training and Application Requirements | Roundup Ready® Xtend Crop System (roundupreadyxtend.com)
Other Dicamba Training and Educational Materials
University of Nebraska online training course
Purdue Extension
Syngenta Stewardship: Product - Tavium
Tavium Plus VaporGrip Technology Application and Stewardship
Online Training Module
Pesticide Sensitive Persons Registry
The pesticide sensitive registry is for people who have or can obtain documentation of sensitivity to pesticide products from a licensed Colorado physician.
To be placed on the registry a certificate must be signed, by a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state of Colorado, stating that you have a medical condition that makes you sensitive to pesticides. A fillable Physician Certification form can be found
here
.
The registry does not prevent an application of pesticides but only requires that commercial applicators (like lawn care companies) make at least two attempts to notify people on the registry at least 24 hours before an application is made to an abutting property (property that touches yours) so that you can leave for a period of time or make other preparations. If notification attempts are unsuccessful, the applicator must make a final attempt immediately prior to the application and place a notice on your door.  More details about applying for the Registry can be found in  the
Information For Registration of Pesticide Sensitive Persons
document.
The law that outlines the requirements of the Pesticide Sensitive Registry can be found under 35-10-112 of the Pesticide Applicators' Act and in Part 12 of its associated Rules. Both can be accessed through the Ho
me tab above
under the Laws, Regulations and Rule hearings link.
Sign up for the Pesticide Sensitive Registry
Please Note:
We have moved to an online application form.  You have the option to create an AccessGov account (click "login" in the upper right, you will have options to set up an account or login with a Google or Microsoft account). Creating an account will allow you to track your application and view your history. An account is not required to complete the application.  New to the form is the option to complete your physician’s certification online by providing your doctor's email address; you also have the option to upload the completed PDF physician’s certification as well. Should you have any issues completing the online form please contact
pesticidesensitive@state.co.us
Mosquito and Other Public Health Pesticide Applications
Mosquito spraying is a "public health pest control" application performed by city, county or other local authorities or by companies they hire under their local authority to protect the health of the people in the community. The notification requirements of the Pesticide Sensitive Registry do not apply to mosquito or other public health or wide-scale pest control applications.
The pesticide registry maintained by the Colorado Department of Agriculture only requires notification of pesticide sensitive persons for pesticide applications made to control pests of lawns, ornamental trees & shrubs, wood destroying organisms such as termites, and residential, commercial and interior plant pests.
Any notification provided to the public during a public health pest control operation by municipalities and/or commercial applicators is done as a courtesy to those requesting, not because it is a state law requirement.
If you don't want your property included in the spraying you must contact the entity conducting these applications and ask them to exclude your property from the program, if they are able to do that.
If you have questions regarding the date, time or area of an upcoming public health pest control application (i.e.: mosquito control) you should contact your local health department or pest district in charge of such applications.
Commercial Pesticide Applicators
The Pesticide Sensitive Registry (PSR) is sent out annually to all licensed commercial applicators at the beginning of each calendar year. Subsequent updates to the PSR are provided throughout the course of the year.
If your business is not licensed in a category that requires you to notify a person on the PSR and you would like to receive the most recent published Registry you may contact the Department's PSR administrator at any time throughout the year to request an electronic copy.
Please contact Carol Barton at (303) 869-9066 or
pesticidesensitive@state.co.us
to obtain information on Pesticide Sensitive persons.
Distribution of Pesticides
#FFFFFF
Pesticide Product Registration
Pesticide Dealers
Pesticide Product Registrations Database
Special Local Needs Labels
Registration and Label Search
Section 18 Emergency Exemptions
#FFFFFF
Neonicotinoid Limited Use Products
Beginning July 1, 2024, pesticide products containing the following neonicotinoid active ingredients and do not meet the listed product type exemptions, are considered "limited - use" pesticides any may only be sold by a licensed dealer.
There are no license requirements for individuals purchasing these products.
There are no record-keeping requirements  for dealers to maintain for the sales of these products.
The active ingredients are:
Acetamiprid
Clothianidin
Dinotefuran
Imidacloprid
Nitenpyram
Nithiazine
Thiacloprid
Thiamethoxam
Products that are pet care products, veterinary products, indoor pest control products, personal care products for lice, products used in structural insulation, wood preservative products, bait products, insect strips, and products used in academic research are exempt from this requirement and are not considered "limited-use."
Please review our product list of neonicotinoid pesticide products currently registered with CDA. Products that are required to be sold by a licensed dealer will feature the word "YES" under column F of the spreadsheet. Products that are considered exempt will feature the word "NO."
Colorado Neonicotinoid Product List Link
For information on how to obtain a dealer license please visit our webpage above or contact us at
cda_pesticide_dealers@state.co.us
For questions regarding product registration status and classification please contact us at
cda_pestreg@state.co.us
Other Topics
#FFFFFF
Pesticide Safety and Protecting the Environment
Endangered Species Information
EPA
Endangered Species Protection Bulletins
US Fish and Wildlife Service
Endangered Species information
Colorado Parks and Wildlife
Endangered Species information
Fumigation Management Plans, Facility Storage, and Misc. Pesticide Safety Information
EPA Soil Fumigation Tool Box
Pesticide Applicator Fumigation Management Plans - Frequently asked questions and examples
Prairie Dog Management
Proper Pesticide Application for Homeowners
Chemical Facility and Anti-Terrorism Standards
Driftwatch
DriftWatch - Pesticide Sensitive Site Viewer
Driftwatch Pesticide Sensitive Viewer
Pesticide News
The Colorado Pesticides News Page is a collection of links to news stories that are relevant to Colorado's Pesticides Program
Proper Use of Disinfectants in the Households and Schools
News from the Environmental Protection Agency
CDC Health Advisory on the Misuse of Pesticides for Bed Bug control
Worker Protection Standards
Worker Protection Standards Revisions
The New Revised Federal Worker Protection Standard How to Comply Manual and Quick Reference Guide
Revisions to the Worker Protection Standards
Resources and Tools for Private Pesticide Applicators
Information on Fumigation Management Plans
Pesticide Applicator Licensing and Examination Guide
USDA RUP Record Keeping Form
Worker Protection Standards Resources
EPA Worker Protection Standard Dashboard
EPA Worker Protection Standard Information
The federal worker protection standard
WPS Record Keeping Form Sample
Updated Questions and Answers on the WPS AEZ
WPS Standard and Application Exclusion Zone Frequently Asked Questions
#FFFFFF
Pollinator Workgroup
Paraquat Dichloride Training for Certified Applicators
Pesticide Advisory Committee
#FFFFFF
Contact Pesticides Program
#FFFFFF
Newsletter Signup
Follow us
Colorado Department of Agriculture
Colorado Proud
Colorado Wine
Colorado State Fair
Contact Us
Colorado Department of Agriculture
303-869-9000
305 Interlocken Parkway
Broomfield, CO 80021
CORA Request
Accessibility Statement
navigate to our accessibility statement
#FFFFFF
placeholder
© 2024 State of Colorado
Transparency Online
General Notices
Colorado Official State Web Portal