Public Portal
Session Timeout
Caution: The current session is approaching the idle timeout limit. To remain logged in, click the button below.
Mobile Menu
Account Login
Lookup
Personnel
Services
Public Lookup
Mobile Filter
TIP:
You can use this Public Lookup to find individual providers, specific agencies/facilities or to view all agencies/facilities for certain types.
EMS Providers/EMR/Medical Directors: To verify the certification/license/registration of an individual, select "Personnel" from the Type dropdown menu and fill out the First and Last Name fields.
Air Ambulance Agencies: To verify the license of an air ambulance agency, select "Service" from the Type dropdown menu and fill out the Name field. For a complete listing of all air ambulance agencies, type "Air" in the Name field.
Education Programs: To verify the recognition of an EMS education program, select "Service" from the Type dropdown menu and fill out the Name field. For a complete listing of all EMS education programs, type "Education" in the Name field.
Ground Ambulance Services: To verify the license of a ground ambulance service, select "Service" from the Type dropdown menu and fill out the License Level field. For a complete listing of all ground ambulance services, select "Licensed Ground Ambulance Service" for the License Level.
Trauma Facilities: To find general information for a trauma facility, select "Service" from the Type dropdown menu and fill out the Name field. For a complete listing of all trauma facilities, type "Trauma" in the Name field.
Validation
Type:
Personnel
Services
Primary Certification Number:
License Number:
Name:
Birth Date:
/
/
First Name:
License Level:
Last Name:
Training Levels:
Suffix:
Name:
Number:
City:
County:
Service Permit Level:
Select Service Permit Level
First Responder
Emergency Medical Responder (EMR)
Emergency Medical Technician (EMT)
Advanced Emergency Medical Technician (AEMT)
EMT-Intermediate
Paramedic
Paramedic with Critical Care Endorsement
Paramedic with Community Paramedic Endorsement
Nurse
Physician
Class:
Select Class
Education Program
Licensed/Recognized Air Ambulance Agency
Licensed Ground Ambulance Agency
Other EMS Service Agency
Trauma Facility
Training Level:
Select Training Level
EMR Education Group
EMR Education Center
EMT Education Group
EMT Education Center
EMT IV Therapy Group
AEMT Education Group
AEMT Education Center
EMT-I Education Group
EMT-I Education Center
Paramedic Education Group
Paramedic Education Center
Training:
© 2024
ImageTrend, Inc.
EMS Operations Sections
Emergency Medical and Trauma Services Branch
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South
Denver, CO 80246
303-691-4932 | 303-691-7720 FAX
www.coems.info
|
cdphe.emtcert@state.co.us