Purpose of the Claimant Handbook
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment helps
people who have lost their jobs by providing temporary wage
replacement through Unemployment Insurance benefits.
Unemployment benefits are funded by employers and may
be paid to any worker who has lost a job through no fault of
their own who meets the eligibility requirements set forth by
the law. Unemployment Insurance helps workers pay their
bills and contributes to the economic stability of the state.
The initial processing time for a claim usually takes four to
six weeks, though complicated claims may take longer. If it is
determined that you qualify to receive payment, you are paid
every week. The first payment you may receive is postponed
by one week’s worth of payment, called the waiting week.
You should apply for unemployment insurance benefits right
after you have completed your last day of work. Please file your
claim as soon as possible to avoid delays in the processing of
your claim and any potential payment you may receive.
This handbook provides important information about
Colorado Unemployment Insurance (UI) Benefits. If
you have questions, please contact us for help.

6

ABOUT THIS HANDBOOK

We Are Here to Help You
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment is here
to assist you through your time of unemployment. To make
sure you are paid benefits in a timely manner, please:
Ҍ Provide accurate information
Ҍ Respond to requests for information quickly and accurately
Ҍ Complete all requirements to maintain UI
eligibility, as outlined in this handbook
Ҍ Keep your contact information up-to-date

Contact Information
Go to Our Website
CDLE.Colorado.gov/unemployment

Call Us
Denver Metro
303-318-9000 | Toll-Free: 1-800-388-5515
Spanish
303-318-9333 | Spanish Toll-Free: 1-866-422-0402
Automated Payment Request Line
303-813-2800 | Toll-Free: 1-888-550-2800
Or visit our Contact us page.
CDLE.Colorado.gov/unemployment/contact-us

ABOUT THIS HANDBOOK

7

Language Assistance
IMPORTANT!
It is critical that you understand your unemployment insurance
compensation rights, responsibilities and/or benefits. If you need assistance
in understanding this document and/or you need interpretation services,
call 303-318-9000 or 1-800-388-5515 (outside Denver metro area).

It is against the law to discriminate against any individual in the United
States on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
disability, political affiliation or belief; and it is against the law to discriminate
against any beneficiary of programs financially assisted under Title I of the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 (WIOA), on the basis
of the beneficiary’s citizenship/status as a lawfully admitted immigrant
authorized to work in the United States, or on the basis of his or her
participation in any WIOA Title I financially assisted program or activity.

Sharing Your Information
We check with a number of sources, including government programs
and identity-proofing services, to make sure your information is correct.
This includes your name, social security number, employer’s name and
address, and wages. Through this process, we may share your information
with other government agencies if the law allows. We also will ask you to
verify your identity through a third-party identity verification program. You
must complete your identity verification before you can receive benefits.

8

ABOUT THIS HANDBOOK

Overview of
Unemployment
Insurance (UI)

About the UI Program
Unemployment Insurance (UI) is a program designed to provide
temporary income to workers who lose their job through no fault of
their own and who meet the eligibility requirements set forth by the
law. These benefit payments help job seekers focus on the path to
reemployment and lessen the negative impact of unemployment on the
economy. Benefits are not available to all workers. For example, workers
who were fired from their job for misconduct cannot receive UI benefits.

Funding for the UI Program
The Colorado UI program is funded through premiums paid by employers.
No money is deducted from your paycheck to pay for UI benefits.

Applying for Benefits
File an Unemployment Claim
Anyone can file for unemployment, however, there are criteria you
have to meet to qualify for benefits. If you received $2,500 or more in
wages on a W-2 from any employer where taxes were withheld during
the last 18 months, you may qualify for unemployment benefits.

OVERVIEW OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

9

Before you file a claim, gather your income-related information, such
as pay stubs. Be prepared to provide information about work you
have performed in the last 18 months, including the legal name and
address of the business, dates you worked, and rate of pay. When
you are ready to file a claim, go to MyUI+. You will need to create
an account and follow the instructions to start a new claim.

File Your Claim in MyUI+
You can file and manage your claim online at CDLE.Colorado.gov/myui-plus.
In MyUI+, you can open a claim, check the status of your claim, request
weekly payment, request information, and more through our safe and
secure portal. You can also access MyUI+ anytime on your mobile device.
Once you register, your account will be valid for any future claims
so remember your password and check often to ensure your
account information is up to date, even after your claim ends.
If you need help setting up your account in the MyUI+
system, requesting weekly benefits, or help with a program
integrity issue on your claim, please call us.

NOTE: You may cancel your claim within 12 calendar days of filing
it. You must call and notify us of your wish to cancel. If you do not
cancel within 12 calendar days of filing, your claim will remain on file
for the duration of the claim year whether or not you keep it active.

Personal Identification Number
You will receive a personal identification number (PIN), which
you must use if you plan to request benefit payments by
phone or you want to access your claim on our Virtual Agent.
It is your responsibility to keep your PIN in a safe and secure
place. Do not share this PIN with anyone. If your PIN is used
without your authorization, you may be held responsible.

10

OVERVIEW OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

Verifying Your Identity
Any time you start an unemployment claim, reopen a claim,
or need to make certain changes to your claim info, we
will ask you to verify your identity. Please make sure you
complete all identity verification tasks as soon as possible
so that your claim will keep moving. You may also be asked
to complete an extra identity verification process, where
you will have to upload a picture of your ID and take a
selfie; or visit a USPS location to verify in person. Tips for
verifying your identity are available on our website.

What Happens After You File Your Claim
After you submit your application for unemployment insurance
benefits, the Division of Unemployment Insurance conducts
a thorough review of your claim. Processing your claim will
typically take 4–6 weeks, but could take longer, depending upon
the circumstances of your separation, your qualifying wages, or
other factors that could make your claim more complex.
When we review your claim, we examine the information
you submitted and contact all the employers you worked
for in the past 18 months. We do this to learn more about
the circumstances related to your job separations.
We also review your claim information to help determine your
eligibility. Please review the eligibility section to understand
whether or not you may be eligible for benefits, and how
to maintain your eligibility if your claim is approved.

OVERVIEW OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

11

Tips to Keep Your Claim Moving Forward
❶ Make Good Use of Your MyUI+ Account
	 You may have used MyUI+ to complete your application for
unemployment. You can also use your MyUI+ account to answer followup questions we may have about your application or job separations,
to request benefits online and to check the status of payments.
❷ Verify Your Identity
	 You will be asked to verify your identity when you complete your
unemployment application and when you make some changes
to your account information. You may be asked to verify your
identity more than once. Please note that your benefit payment
will not be released until you have verified your identity.
❸ Request Payment EVERY WEEK
	 You will need to request payment/certify your unemployment status
every week, even if your claim has not yet been approved/denied. If
you fail to request payments within the specified timeframe, the system
will assume that you are back to work and no longer need benefits.
This will close your claim and prevent your ability to request payment.
❹ Understand the Waiting Week
	 Under Colorado law, the first week for which you are eligible for
unemployment benefits is a week for which you are not paid.
This is called the waiting week. The waiting week does not
mean that you must wait a week to apply for unemployment
insurance benefits. You should apply for unemployment insurance
benefits right after you have completed your last day of work.
❺ Quickly Return Any Follow-Up Documentation We Send You
	 After applying for unemployment insurance benefits, you will
receive several important documents. These documents will either
be delivered to your MyUI+ account or via the U.S. mail. We
recommend selecting electronic delivery, as it will expedite any
claim-related documents and may result in a faster decision on
your claim. Make sure that you read and respond to any requests for
information as soon as possible to avoid any delays in processing.
12

OVERVIEW OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

Eligibility for
UI Benefits

Qualifying for Unemployment Benefits
Our agency will review your claim to determine if you
qualify for benefits. We look at these three criteria:
❶	 How much did you work before filing a claim?
You must have earned at least $2,500 in wages during your
“base period.” The base period is four of the last five calendar
quarters before the start date of your claim. A calendar quarter
is equal to 3-month segments of the year, beginning in January.
To learn more about the base period, please visit our website.
For example, if you file your claim in October 2024,
the last five completed calendar quarters are:

2023

2023

2024

2024

2024

Q3

Q4

Q1

Q2

Q3

This does not include the current quarter you filed your claim
because it has not yet been completed (October is at the
beginning of the fourth quarter). The base period would be the
third quarter in 2023 through the second quarter of 2024.

ELIGIBILITY FOR UI BENEFITS

13

We will send a form called Notice of Wages and Possible Benefits
that shows how much you earned in the base period and how
much you may receive in benefits. If you did not earn at least
$2,500 during the standard base period, you may be eligible to
use an alternate base period if you earned wages during this
period (the most recent four completed calendar quarters).
Some additional factors we consider while processing your claim
include work in other states, federal civilian wages, and military wages.

Work in Other States
If you worked in or have wages in more than one state, you may
choose to use these wages on your Colorado unemployment claim.
In order to use the out-of-state wages on your claim, you must also
have wages in Colorado during the base period. We will contact your
previous employer(s) and that state to determine whether or not
they are included in your claim based on Colorado’s law. If you have
not already told us about your employment in another state, call the
Customer Service Center at 303-318-9000 (Denver metro area) or
1-800-388-5515 (outside Denver-metro area) to add an employer to
your claim. You may have overlapping claims in more than one state.

Federal Civilian Wages
The federal government does not report your wages to us, so we
request your federal wages after you file for unemployment. Those
wages are added to your claim after they are verified by the federal
agency for which you worked, which means they may not appear on
your first Notice of Wages and Possible Benefits. You must sign and
return the Claimant’s Affidavit of Federal Civilian Service, Wages,
and Reason for Separation and the Unemployment Compensation
for Federal Employees forms. Also, include the following forms when
you provide the information above: SF-8 and SF-50. These forms
should have been provided to you when you separated from the
Federal Employer. If these forms are not provided to the division, this
could delay the processing of your claim. When the federal wages are
added, you will receive a new Notice of Wages and Possible Benefits.
If you have not already told us about your federal employment, call
the Customer Service Center at 303-318-9000 or 1-800-388-5515
(outside Denver-metro area) to add this employer to your claim.
14

ELIGIBILITY FOR UI BENEFITS

Military Wages
Your branch of service does not report your wages to us, which means
those wages may not be reported on your first Notice of Wages and
Possible Benefits. In order for the division to add wage information
to your claim and prevent delays in processing, you must mail or fax
a copy of your DD Form 214, Member 4 (this form does not need to
be notarized). If you do not have a copy of your DD Form 214, you
can request one at Archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records.
❷ Why are you no longer working for your past employers?
The reason you are no longer employed helps determine
whether you can receive UI benefits. In order to qualify for
benefits, you must have lost your job through no fault of your
own (for example, a layoff, reduction in hours, or reduction in
pay not related to performance). We will contact your previous
employer(s). Here are some examples of separation reasons
that may qualify or disqualify you from receiving benefits.
You may receive benefits if you:
ຈ Were laid off or your hours were reduced because
your employer did not have enough work for you
ຈ Left your last job and can show it was for good cause
related to the job (such as unsafe working conditions)
ຈ Are unemployed because you or your child were a victim
of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault
You may not receive benefits if you:
ຌ Left your job for personal reasons unrelated to work
ຌ Were fired for misconduct
ຌ Are not legally authorized to work in the United States
ຌ Are self-employed full-time
ຌ Are currently receiving workers’ compensation
for an on-the-job injury

ELIGIBILITY FOR UI BENEFITS

15

❸ Are you able and available to work?
In order to qualify for UI benefits you must be:
Ҍ Actively looking for work (unless you are job or unionattached—see more info in the glossary section)
Ҍ Mentally and physically able to work
Ҍ Legally authorized to work in the United States
Ҍ Available to accept new work (for example, you do not have
personal responsibilities that would prevent you from working)

Options for Receiving Payment
If you are eligible for UI benefits, you may receive your payment by:
Direct Deposit
This option puts money directly into
your valid checking account.
Prepaid Debit Card
This option provides you with a prepaid debit card from
U.S. Bank called ReliaCard®. You can make purchases, get
cash, and pay bills everywhere Visa® debit is accepted.
To learn more about these payment options,
visit CDLE.Colorado.gov/payment.

16

ELIGIBILITY FOR UI BENEFITS

Amount of
UI Benefits

After you file a claim for UI benefits, you will receive a Notice of Wages and
Possible Benefits in the mail or in your MyUI+ account. The form explains:
Ҍ The amount of benefits you are eligible to receive, if
approved, and how that amount was calculated
Ҍ The number of weeks you will be eligible for benefits
Ҍ Information about how to Appeal or request a monetary
reconsideration if you disagree with the decision
The maximum amount of benefits you can receive per week in the
state of Colorado is 55% of your weekly wage over a 12-month
time period. To estimate your potential benefits and see the current
maximum benefit amount, go to UIBEstimator.COWorkforce.com.

Waiting Week
The first week of your claim is considered a waiting week. You must file
a payment request and meet all eligibility requirements during this week,
but you will not be paid. Your payments will start the following week,
assuming you are still eligible for benefits and fulfill all requirements.

AMOUNT OF UI BENEFITS

17

Deductions
Your benefits may be reduced under the following circumstances:

Severance Pay
A severance package may affect UI benefits. Be sure to
report any severance payments when you file your weekly
payment request. We may contact you for additional details
to help determine if your severance pay is deductible.

Severance pay IS NOT:
Ҍ Your last paycheck
Ҍ Compensation for hours you worked

Severance pay IS:
Ҍ Any payment that is designated by your employer as
a severance allowance paid to you because you are
separated from employment and compensates you
for a period of time that you may be unemployed.

Money Owed
Some or all of your unemployment benefits may be reduced if you:
Ҍ Owe court-ordered child support
Ҍ Have past due federal or state taxes
Ҍ Previously received unemployment benefits that you were not entitled
to, and did not repay the overpayment, including from other states
You will be notified by the Colorado Division of Unemployment Insurance
if your UI benefits will be applied to any of these types of debts.

18

AMOUNT OF UI BENEFITS

Taxes
Your unemployment benefits are taxable by both the federal and state
governments. You can decide to have taxes automatically deducted
from your payments, or you can pay the taxes later. You may change
from one option to the other only once during your unemployment
claim. Questions about taxes on UI payments should be directed
to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or your tax professional.
By the end of January each year, CDLE will provide you with IRS
form 1099-G. This form shows the amount of benefits you were
paid during the previous year and the amount of income tax
withheld, if you selected that option. You can access your 1099G in your MyUI+ account under the Correspondences section.

Getting Paid
Payment is made after your claim is processed and it is determined
you qualify for benefits and you maintain your eligibility. In order
to be paid benefits, you must request payment every week even
while you are waiting for your claim to be processed and also during
any appeals process. Remember that the first qualifying week on
your claim will not be paid as it is the mandatory waiting week.
There are two methods of receiving your unemployment benefit
payments: Direct Deposit or a Prepaid Debit Card. If you file your
claim electronically, you can select one of these two methods when
you file. If you filed your claim by phone, your default method
is a prepaid debit card. To change your payment method, log
into MyUI+ and go to "View and Maintain Account Information"
and then "Payment Method Options and Tax Information."

AMOUNT OF UI BENEFITS

19

Direct Deposit
You can avoid debit card fees by having your benefit payments
deposited directly to your checking or savings account. If you had a
Colorado unemployment claim at any time in the past and used the
direct deposit option, be sure to update your payment selection.
The bank account information you provided on your previous claim
may no longer be valid, and you will need to make updates to your
bank account information or switch to the prepaid debit card.

A NOTE ABOUT BANK ACCOUNT VERIFICATION
If you select direct deposit and add a bank account, we
will then validate your bank account information. The best
practice is to use a standard checking or savings account at a
traditional bank with physical locations. If your bank account
does not pass the validation step, please try another account
or select the debit card option to receive your payments.

Prepaid Debit Card
You may have to pay fees when using your U.S. Bank ReliaCard® which
are deducted from your benefit payments. You can find all the details you
will need to know about the fees and services at USBankReliacard.com.

20

AMOUNT OF UI BENEFITS

Maintaining Your
UI Eligibility

To get paid you must maintain your eligibility. In order to remain
eligible and continue to receive benefit payments, you must:
Ҍ Request payment every week starting Sundays
from the effective date of your claim.
Ҍ Respond truthfully when requesting payment of benefits.
Ҍ Actively seek work and keep track of your work-search activities.
Ҍ Be physically and mentally able to work.
Ҍ Be willing to accept suitable work.
Ҍ Be available to begin work immediately if a job is offered.
Ҍ Report all hours you worked and gross wages you
earned each time you request payment.
Ҍ Register with your local workforce center or at
ConnectingColorado.com within one week of filing your claim.
Ҍ Report to a workforce center if you receive a notice
to participate in the RESEA program.
You must comply with each of the tasks listed above in order
to avoid possible overpayments or a fraud investigation.

M A I N TA I N I N G YO U R U I E L I G I B I L I T Y

21

Searching for Work
You are required to actively search for work every week you receive
UI benefits by completing work-search activities. We recommend
that you complete at least five work-search activities per week. If you
are union or job-attached, you may not need to search for work.
Examples of work-search activities include:
Ҍ Applying or interviewing for a job for which you are qualified.
Ҍ Taking an exam as part of an application process
for a job for which you are qualified.
Ҍ Participating in reemployment services at a state
workforce center or other location where similar
services are provided, including resumé building.

A detailed list of work-search activities
can be found on our website.

We regularly audit unemployment insurance claims. If you are
audited, you will need to provide proof of your work search efforts.
Failure to complete work-search activities each week and document
those activities with information that can be confirmed may cause
the denial of benefits and may result in an overpayment.

Requesting Weekly Payment
& Reporting Earnings
Ҍ You must request payment every week
Ҍ Request your payments every week online through
MyUI+ or by telephone 303-813-2800 or
1-888-550-2800 (outside Denver-Metro area)
Ҍ Payments will be made by direct deposit to your
bank account, or to your UI debit card.
22

M A I N TA I N I N G YO U R U I E L I G I B I L I T Y

Ҍ Request payment only for any weeks you are
unemployed, or worked fewer than 32 hours.
Ҍ If you are working while claiming UI benefits, you must
report how much money you made. The amount you must
report is your gross earnings, not your net earnings.

 D ON’T FORGET! The first week you are eligible
for benefits is the unpaid “Waiting Week.”

What Earnings to Report
When you have an open unemployment claim but are still getting some
hours of work, you may be awarded part of your weekly benefits, but
you must have earned less than your weekly benefit amount and worked
fewer than 32 hours that week. The law states that you can earn up to
50% of your weekly benefit amount and still be paid your full benefit
payment. After that, we must reduce your benefit payment by one
dollar for each dollar you earn. We require that you report the time and
gross earnings the week they were earned (not the week they are paid).
Any money received in exchange for work or services MUST be
reported as earnings on your claim, even if it’s just one hour worked
or one dollar earned. Tips must be reported as wages. Be sure you
are reporting for the week you worked, not when you get paid.
Payments you must report as earnings or wages include: This includes
all work, including Full-Time, Temporary Work, Self-Employment,
Military Employment, Federal Employment, Commission, Paid Training,
1099, Contract Jobs, Cash Jobs, Paid Time Off when work was available.
If you make a mistake when reporting your earnings, you may
correct this information in MyUI+ or by calling the Benefits
Payment Center at 303-318-9035. Failing to accurately report
wages, earnings, or other types of payment may be considered
fraud and could result in penalties or denial of benefits.

M A I N TA I N I N G YO U R U I E L I G I B I L I T Y

23

How and When to Report Earnings
When requesting payment of benefits, you must report your hours
worked and gross earnings (i.e., earnings before tax withholdings,
child support, etc.) for each week that you request payment, so it is
important that you keep a record of all of your hours and earnings.
Ҍ You can report your hours in MyUI+ online or by calling our
automated system at 303-813-2800 (toll-free: 1-888-550-2800) .
Ҍ Report hours and earnings for each week.
Weeks are always Sunday through Saturday.
Ҍ Report hours and earnings for the week that the
hours were worked, not when you were paid.
Ҍ Report the total amount that you earned, not your hourly wage.
Ҍ Report hours and earnings before any withholdings or deductions.
Ҍ Report all your earnings from any type of work you did, including tips,
commission, paid orientation/training, self-employment, temporary
work, seasonal work, day labor, and any other part-time work.

NOTE: If you do not correctly report your hours and
earnings, it could result in an overpayment, which
you must pay back, in addition to penalties.

Self Employment
Self-employment is considered work. You will need to report your hours
worked and profits or gross earnings for the hours worked each week
when you request payment (not when you get paid), so be sure to keep
track of all of your hours and earnings. You must also maintain your
eligibility by meeting all the requirements in order to be paid benefits.

24

M A I N TA I N I N G YO U R U I E L I G I B I L I T Y

Commission Earnings
Commissions are considered earnings. You will need to report your hours
worked and estimate your commissions earned for each week you request
payment, so be sure to keep track of all your hours and earned commissions.
Instead of waiting until you are paid, we require that you report the
estimated commissions as they are earned (when you request payment).

How to Calculate Gross Earnings
You will need to report your hours worked and gross earnings
(pay before any withholdings, e.g., taxes or child support)
information for each week when you request payment, so
be sure to keep track of all your hours and earnings.

x

Number of Hours Worked During Week
Rate of Pay
Gross Earnings

For instance, if you worked 30 hours in a
week at $20 per hour, you would report
$600 in gross earnings for the week.

Processing Your Claim
Processing your claim usually takes four to six weeks to complete. After
you file your claim, we request separation information from your previous
employer(s), evaluate your previous wages, and review any additional
income. When processing is complete, you will begin to receive your
requested payment(s) if you qualify. You may also receive a Notice of
Decision explaining why you will or will not receive a payment. You may
appeal any decision you disagree with through an appeal process. More
information on Appeals is available on page 33 and on our website.

M A I N TA I N I N G YO U R U I E L I G I B I L I T Y

25

While Your Claim is Processing
During the processing time frame, you may be sent notices regarding
your claim. Communications will be based on your identified preference
of either email or mail. The Division highly recommends email as it is
recognized as the most timely delivery of documents. Check your email
and/or mail, and respond to any requests for information by the due date.
You must request payment every week and meet all eligibility
requirements even while you wait for your claim to be
processed. Your first request for payment will be on the Sunday
immediately following the first week of your claim.

Reopening Your Claim
If you stopped requesting payment and need to reopen your claim,
please do so in MyUI+. To avoid delays on your claim, you should reopen
your claim as soon as you stop working or when you begin meeting
all the eligibility requirements. If you have tried to reopen your claim
online but need additional assistance, you may contact the Customer
Service Center at 303-318-9000 or 1-800-388-5515 (outside DenverMetro area) during the hours of operation for claim-filing services.

Overpayments
An overpayment occurs when unemployment benefits are
paid, and it is later determined that benefits should not have
been paid (not eligible or entitled). You are required to repay
these benefits no matter what caused the overpayment.
Some of the common causes of overpayments include:
Ҍ A hearing officer’s decision reverses a previous award of benefits.
Ҍ You incorrectly report information when requesting
payment and the information is corrected later.
Ҍ Your base period wages were incorrectly reported by
your employer, and the wages are corrected later.
Ҍ Your claim is incorrectly processed, and it is corrected later.
If you cannot repay the entire amount immediately, contact us to
ask if you can set up a repayment plan at 303-318-9035 (Denvermetro area) or 1-877-464-4622 (outside Denver-metro area).
26

M A I N TA I N I N G YO U R U I E L I G I B I L I T Y

Getting You
Back to Work

Mandatory Job Search Registration
To receive UI benefits, you must either register in-person at
your local workforce center or online at Connecting Colorado
(ConnectingColorado.com) within one week of filing your claim for
UI benefits. Report to a workforce center if you received a notice to
do so. If you are attached to a job or union hiring hall or meet other
specific criteria, we will notify you of your exemption to register.
Upon registering, review your contact information, skill sets,
occupational goals, and other information to help the workforce center
match you to job openings. Once you are prepared to apply for jobs,
let us help you update your resume and improve your interview skills.

Reemployment Services
In addition to job search assistance, Connecting Colorado can assist
you with resume writing, interviewing skills, labor market information,
and more. Visit our website to find your local workforce center.

  our local workforce center offers a variety of no-cost
Y
programs and services—including job leads and career
resources—to help you get back to work faster.

GETTING YOU BACK TO WORK

27

Reemployment Services and Eligibility
Assessment (RESEA) Program
The Reemployment Services and Eligibility Assessment (RESEA) is a program
developed to assist selected individuals who receive unemployment
insurance (UI) benefits. Not all claimants will be selected to participate in
the program, but for those selected participation is required to continue
to receive unemployment insurance benefits. Participants in RESEA will
be able to meet with trained career professionals in local Workforce
Centers to provide individualized assistance with reemployment goals.

Additional Services to Assist You
Training Programs - You may be eligible for training or education programs
to help you upgrade your skills or complete a degree program. To learn more
about whether you might qualify, visit CDLE.Colorado.gov/jobs-training.
Veterans’ Assistance – We have employment assistance
programs specifically designed for veterans. If you are a veteran,
get started at CDLE.Colorado.gov/jobs-training/veterans.
Research - As a next step, evaluate your current industry and career path by
checking labor market information at COLMIGateway.com. Your local workforce
center representatives can help you access career and salary trends in your area.

When You Find a New Job
After you start a new full-time job, you do not need to notify our office that
you found work. Simply stop submitting the weekly claim certification to
request UI benefit payments when you start your new job (even if you will
not be paid for a week or more). Should you start the new job in the middle
of the week, be sure to report your earnings on your weekly claim.
Do not request payment while you are working full-time, even if you
have not been paid yet. Request payment only for any weeks you are
unemployed or worked fewer than 32 hours. If you do work part of
a week, report all hours and earnings before taxes (including any tips)
in the week they were earned, not in the week they were paid.

28

GETTING YOU BACK TO WORK

UI Fraud and
Identity Theft

Fraud is a serious crime. Detecting and preventing unemployment
insurance fraud is a priority for our agency. Claims are audited regularly
to ensure benefits are paid according to state and federal law.

Examples of UI Fraud
There are different types of fraud, and can be committed
by you or someone else, like a hacker.
Ҍ Failing to report money earned while collecting benefits.
Ҍ Being dishonest about why you are no longer
working for a previous employer.
Ҍ Saying you are able and available when you are ill,
traveling, or otherwise unable or unavailable to work.
Ҍ Reporting that you looked for work when you
did not make valid work-search efforts.
Ҍ Someone steals your identity and files a claim on your behalf.

Ways To Avoid Committing Fraud
Ҍ Always tell the truth. If you intentionally make false
statements or hide information to gain or maintain
UI benefits, you are committing fraud.
Ҍ Report all hours worked and earnings if you work while
requesting payment of unemployment benefits.

UI FRAUD AND IDENTITY THEFT

29

Ҍ Contact employers for new work and keep
accurate records of your efforts.
Ҍ Tell us about any job you are offered but decide to turn down.
Ҍ Tell us right away when you stop working or separate from a job.
Ҍ When you request benefit payments, tell us any time you are
unable and/or unavailable to work (for example, if you are ill
or injured, out of the area, on vacation, incarcerated, etc.).
Ҍ Do not make false statements or be dishonest
in order to receive or increase benefits.
Ҍ Do not use another person’s identity (e.g. name, social security
number, address) to work or to file for unemployment benefits.
Ҍ Do not help someone to fraudulently file a
UI claim or request payments.
If you are confused about what you are supposed to do or report, call
or email us for clarification at 303-318-9000 (Denver-metro area) or
1-800-388-5515 (outside Denver-metro area), or at ColoradoUI.gov.

How to Avoid Identity Theft
Alongside the rise in unemployment insurance claims associated
with COVID-19, states saw a corresponding rise in unemployment
fraud, identity theft, phishing attacks, hijacked claims, and other
scams targeting unemployment claimants. Below, you’ll find tips
on how to protect yourself, as well as options to report suspected
fraud, identity theft, or a compromised MyUI+ account.
Here are some steps you can take to protect yourself against attempts
to compromise your MyUI+ account and unemployment claim:

ະ Be careful about requests by phone, text, or email to share

personally identifiable information such as your Social Security
number, bank account numbers, PIN numbers, or account
passwords. Scammers try to obtain personal information in
order to file fraudulent claims or hijack your existing claim.

30

UI FRAUD AND IDENTITY THEFT

ະ Avoid clicking links in emails and text messages. CDLE will never

send you a text message with a link to log into your MyUI+ account.

ະ If you click the link and/or communicate with the

hacker, they can hijack your account, change your
payment method, and steal your money.

ະ If you have filed an unemployment claim, verify that
your address, phone number, email, and payment
method are correct and have not been altered
before completing each weekly certification.

ະ Do not share your MyUI+ password. It is always a

good idea to monitor your MyUI+ account to ensure
your contact and bank information is correct.

How to Report Suspected Fraud/Identity Theft
You can report fraud/identity theft on our website at
CDLE.Colorado.gov/fraud-prevention.
Additionally, there are several recommended steps to follow:
Ҍ If you use the debit card for unemployment payments,
follow the instructions at USBankReliacard.com or contact
U.S. Bank immediately at 1-855-282-6161. Tell them that
a fraudulent unemployment claim was filed using your
information, and ask them to deactivate the card.
Ҍ Contact the three consumer credit bureaus and put a fraud
alert on your name and Social Security number (SSN). It may
be an automated system, so you may not talk to a live person
and you will have to enter your SSN and date of birth.
Credit Bureau Contact Info
Equifax: 1-800-525-6285
Experian: 1-888-397-3742
TransUnion: 1-800-680-7289

UI FRAUD AND IDENTITY THEFT

31

Penalties for UI Fraud
Penalties for fraud can include:
Ҍ Repayment of all UI benefits that you were not eligible to receive.
Ҍ A 65% monetary penalty fee and interest on top of
the benefits you should not have received.
Ҍ Disqualification from receiving future benefits.
Ҍ Being convicted of a crime in state and/or federal court.

What We Do to Stop UI Fraud
These are just some of the ways we identify
people who are committing fraud:
Ҍ Enhanced security measures, including identity verification for all
new claims, reopened claims and some claim information changes.
Ҍ Comparing earnings reported by workers and their employers.
Ҍ Auditing claims.
Ҍ Checking state and national databases of recently
hired individuals to make sure people are not collecting
UI benefits after they start working again.
Ҍ Verifying job search contacts.
Ҍ Reviewing union attached status.

32

UI FRAUD AND IDENTITY THEFT

Appeal Rights

If you or your employer disagree with a decision (Notice of Determination)
regarding your UI claim, you each have the right to appeal. Appeals
must be submitted within 20 days from the date the determination
letter was mailed. If the 20th calendar day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the due date of the appeal becomes the next business day.

How to Submit an Appeal
You can submit your appeal through your MyUI+ account by going
to "View and Maintain Account Information," and then "Issues and
Determinations," and find the issue you want to appeal. We recommend
submitting your appeal through MyUI+, as the appeal will be received
and processed faster when you appeal directly in your MyUI+ account.
All you need to provide initially is a detailed description of the
reasons you disagree with the decision. You can provide additional
documents or records (evidence) prior to your hearing.

  ou must continue to request payment every week
Y
and continue to meet all eligibility requirements even
while you wait for your appeal to be processed.

APPEAL RIGHTS

33

If you are unable to file your appeal through MyUI+, you can complete the
form on the back of the Notice of Determination and mail or fax it to us. If
you need more room to provide specific details, attach additional pages to
the form or upload documents on our website. If you fax your appeal, the
date on the fax will be used to determine if your appeal was received on time.
Appeal Online:
You can submit your appeal online through MyUI+.
CDLE.Colorado.gov/myui-plus
Mail Your Appeal:
Unemployment Appeals Section
PO BOX 8988
Denver, CO 80201-8988
Fax Your Appeal: 303-318-9014
Make sure to include the front and back of the determination.

The Appeal Process
After your appeal is received, you will be sent a Notice of Hearing in the
mail and will also be in your MyUI+ account in the Correspondences
section. It will inform you of the date and time of your appeal hearing. You
will be required to check in for your hearing no later than 2:00 p.m. the
day before your scheduled hearing. If you do not check in for the hearing,
it will be dismissed. Instructions for this are included on the Notice of
Hearing. You must participate in your hearing to protect your benefit
rights. An impartial hearing officer is responsible for the appeal hearing.
The hearing officer will issue a written decision that is available in your
MyUI+ account in the Correspondences section and is mailed after the
hearing to you and any other interested parties, such as your employer.
If you disagree with a hearing officer's decision, you may appeal that
decision to the Industrial Claim Appeals Office. For more information about
appeals, visit CDLE.Colorado.gov/unemployment/appeals/the-hearing.
More information about the hearing process, including what to do
before the hearing and how to check in for your hearing, is available
on our website at CDLE.Colorado.gov/unemployment/appeals.
34

APPEAL RIGHTS

Remaining Eligible During Your Appeal
To maintain your UI eligibility, continue to search for work, complete the
weekly claim certification, and report any money you earned during the claim
week while your appeal is pending. If the appeal is decided in your favor,
you will only be paid for the weeks for which you met these requirements.

Late Appeals
Any written appeal received after the 20-calendar-day deadline is considered
late. If you file your appeal late, send in a detailed reason for your late
appeal before your scheduled hearing. The Appeals Unit will send you a
hearing notice with a date and time for a hearing. At the beginning of the
hearing, the other party may object to the late appeal. During the hearing,
you must explain in detail the reasons you filed the appeal late (this is called
“showing good cause”). If the hearing officer determines that you do not
have good cause for the late appeal, the hearing will be dismissed, and the
deputy’s original decision will become final. In the event that your appeal
is received more than 180 days late, a hearing will not be scheduled, the
appeal will be dismissed, and the deputy’s decision will become final.

Quick Reference Guide
ColoradoUI.gov has information to assist you with
your unemployment-benefit needs.

Unemployment Insurance Customer Service Center
303-318-9000 (Denver-metro area)
1-800-388-5515 (outside Denver-metro area)
Fax: 303-318-9014
Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.

Automated Payment Request
Online: ColoradoUI.gov/myui
303-813-2800 (Denver-metro area)
1-888-550-2800 (outside Denver-metro area)

APPEAL RIGHTS

35

Manage your Claim
Check your claim status and benefits eligibility, change your
address, review and edit your profile, and view your balances.
CDLE.Colorado.gov/myui-plus

Unemployment Insurance Appeals
303-318-9299 (Denver-metro area)
1-800-405-2338 (outside Denver-metro area)
Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.

Colorado Workforce Centers
You are required to register for work-search and job-seekers services.
Ҍ To register go to ConnectingColorado.com or
visit your local workforce center.
Ҍ For locations go to coloradoui.gov/workforce

U.S. Bank Cardmember Services
855-279-1678 | USBankReliacard.com

Workers’ Compensation
Ensures the delivery of disability and medical benefits to injured workers.
303-318-8700 or 1-888-390-7936 (toll-free)
Colorado.gov/pacific/cdle/dwc

Equal Opportunity
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces
federal anti-discrimination laws. 1-800-669-4000 (toll-free)
Colorado Division of Civil Rights enforces Colorado
anti-discrimination laws. 303-894-2997
If you believe that the Division of Unemployment Insurance
discriminated against you on a claim, contact the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission at 1-800-669-4000.
36

APPEAL RIGHTS

Division of Labor Standards & Statistics
Administers laws and regulations governing wages,
minimum wage, youth employment, certain union issues and
grievances, and employment-related immigration laws.
303-318-8441
Through the Office of Labor Market Information (LMI), DLSS collects and
analyzes information about labor market trends throughout Colorado.
COLMIGateway.com

United Way
Employment services, affordable housing connections, financial/
savings education, other education. Dial 211 or go to
211Colorado.org to connect with assistance programs.

Colorado Department of Human Services
Child care assistance, cash assistance, youth leaving the
penalty system, families needing help with care of elderly.
Colorado.gov/cdhs

Salvation Army
Rent assistance, homeless shelter, and holiday assistance.
SalvationArmy.org

Socials
Website
Colorado.gov/cdle

LinkedIn
Linkedin.com/company/cdle

Facebook
Facebook.com/ColoradoLabor

Instagram
@ColoradoLabor

X / Twitter
@ColoradoLabor

APPEAL RIGHTS

37

Appendix

Appendix A - Legal Disclosures
Equal Opportunity Information
It is against the law for this agency to discriminate against any
individual on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age,
disability, or political affiliation or belief, or against any beneficiary
of, applicant to, or participant in programs financially assisted under
Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA),
on the basis of the individual’s citizenship status or participation
in any WIOA Title I–financially assisted program or activity.

What to Do if You Experience Discrimination
If you think that you have been subjected to discrimination under a
WIOA Title I—financially assisted program or activity, you may file a
complaint within 180 days from the date of the alleged violation.
To File a Complaint Online
DOL.gov/agencies/oasam/civil-rights-center/how-to-file-complaint

To File a Complaint by Mail
Send information about your complaint to:
The Director - Civil Rights Center
U.S. Department of Labor
200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room N-4123
Washington, DC 20210

38

APPENDIX

Accommodations for Individuals with Disabilities
We will make accommodations to allow your participation in all UI
programs, activities, and services. To request an accommodation
for a disability, please email the Americans with Disabilities Act
Coordinator at cdle_hr_employee_relations@state.co.us.

Your Privacy Matters to Us
We follow all state and federal laws that protect your private
information. To help connect you with programs designed to get
you back to work, we share some of your information with our
partners, and they are not allowed to share it with anyone else.
We give them your:
Ҍ Contact information
Ҍ Employment and job search history
Ҍ Demographics (such as age or gender)
Your previous employers and other state or local government agencies
may release to our agency any information, including your Social
Security number, required for the proper administration of your claim.
We also use your Social Security number to report the amount of UI
benefits you receive to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as taxable income.

Appendix B - Glossary
This section defines commonly used terms and acronyms.
Appeal – A process for requesting a formal review of a prior UI decision.
Appeal Hearing – A meeting to consider an Unemployment Insurance
benefit appeal. Each party (you and the employer, in most cases) can tell
an impartial hearing officer what they believe the relevant facts are
related to the issue on appeal. You may have witnesses testify. You may
ask questions of the other party. All testimony is given under oath.

APPENDIX

39

Base Period – The window of time used to determine UI benefit
eligibility. At the time an initial claim for benefits is filed, wages from
the first four of the last five completed calendar quarters are reviewed
to determine UI benefit eligibility. Your Weekly Benefit Amount
(WBA) is also based on how much you earned during this time.
Benefit Week – A seven-day period during which you
have an active claim. The benefit week begins on Sunday
and ends at midnight the following Saturday.
Benefit Year – Also referred to as a Claim Year, this is the 52
weeks from the Claim Effective Date to the Claim End Date.
Benefits – The money given to eligible individuals.
Claim – An application for UI benefits.
Claim Effective Date – The Sunday of the week in which your
initial claim for benefits is filed. Claim End Date—also referred to
as a Benefit Year End (BYE), this is the last Saturday of a Benefit
Year. This falls 52 weeks after the Claim Effective Date.
Fraud – Knowingly claiming or accepting UI benefits illegally. Fraud is a crime.
Full-Time Work – Working 32 or more hours per week.
Gross Earnings – The amount of money you earn for
work before taxes and deductions are taken out.
Job-Attached/Union-Attached – Job attached means that you are
expected to return to your most recent employer after a separation of
not more than 16 weeks from the date of separation. If you are jobattached, your requirements to seek work and to register with your local
workforce center may be waived, but you must be available to return
to work during this time frame. Union attached is the same except the
union must find work for you within 16 weeks from the effective date of
your initial or reopened claim for unemployment insurance benefits.

40

APPENDIX

Net Earnings – Your take-home pay, after taxes and deductions are taken out.
Maximum Benefit Amount (MBA) – The maximum amount of
benefits you may receive during a benefit year. This amount is based
on the wages earned in the Base Period of a claim multiplied by the
number of benefit weeks you are eligible for within the Claim Year.
This amount is listed in your Monetary Determination notice.
Misconduct – Careless or deliberate behavior that results in being fired
or suspended from your job. Examples include dishonesty related to
employment, unexcused absences, or violation of a company policy.
Monetary Determination – A form mailed to you after you file an initial
claim for UI benefits. It explains if you are eligible for UI benefits, how much
your payment will be each week, the Maximum Benefit Amount (MBA), and
other details for that Claim Year. This form lists all employers you worked
for during the Base Period and the wages each employer reported each
quarter. If any information on this form is not accurate, please review the
“Wage and Employer Correction Sheet” correspondence in your MyUI+
account. You may need to send us proof that the wages are incorrect.
Overpayment – UI benefits you received, but
were not entitled to, under state law.
Partial UI Benefits – The amount of UI benefits you may
receive while working reduced hours (less than your typical
work hours, must be less than 32 hours per week).
Separation – When you or your employer end the working relationship.
This can be due to a quit, discharge, leave of absence, suspension, or layoff.
UI – Unemployment Insurance, which is the benefit program for
workers who become unemployed through no fault of their own.
Weekly Benefit Amount (WBA) – The maximum amount
of money you may be eligible to receive for one week. This
amount is listed in your Monetary Determination notice.

APPENDIX

41

Your Guide to
Unemployment
Benefits
COLORADOUI.GOV

42

43

COLORADOUI.GOV

44

